0	1 Chronicles 12:40	And also their relatives, from as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, came bringing food on donkeys and on camels and on mules and on oxen, abundant provisions of flour, cakes of figs, clusters of raisins, and wine and oil, oxen and sheep, for there was joy in Israel.	bread
0	1 Chronicles 13:8	And David and all Israel were rejoicing before God with all their might, with song and lyres and harps and tambourines and cymbals and trumpets.	singing
0	1 Chronicles 15:1-29	David built houses for himself in the city of David. And he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. Then David said that no one but the Levites may carry the ark of God, for the Lord had chosen them to carry the ark of the Lord and to minister to him forever. And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord to its place, which he had prepared for it. And David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites: of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with 120 of his brothers; ...	singing
0	1 Chronicles 15:16	David also commanded the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers as the singers who should play loudly on musical instruments, on harps and lyres and cymbals, to raise sounds of joy.	christmas,singing
0	1 Chronicles 15:22	Chenaniah, leader of the Levites in music, should direct the music, for he understood it.	singing
0	1 Chronicles 15:27	David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as also were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers and Chenaniah the leader of the music of the singers. And David wore a linen ephod.	singing
0	1 Chronicles 16:11	Seek the Lord and his strength; seek his presence continually!	body,church,courage,god,goodness,judgment,learning,life,overcoming,prayer,pride,rest,seeking,strength,weakness,worrying
0	1 Chronicles 16:23	Sing to the Lord, all the earth! Tell of his salvation from day to day.	singing
0	1 Chronicles 16:24	Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!	calling
0	1 Chronicles 16:26	For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the Lord made the heavens.	idols
0	1 Chronicles 16:27	Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and joy are in his place.	joy
0	1 Chronicles 16:29	Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; bring an offering and come before him! Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness;	beauty,holiness,worship
0	1 Chronicles 16:33	Then shall the trees of the forest sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth.	beauty,judgment
0	1 Chronicles 16:34	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!	goodness,gratitude,praise,reliability
0	1 Chronicles 16:8	Oh give thanks to the Lord; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples!	gratitude
0	1 Chronicles 16:9	Sing to him; sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!	singing,worship
0	1 Chronicles 17:1-27	Now when David lived in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, &ldquo;Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under a tent.&rdquo; And Nathan said to David, &ldquo;Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you.&rdquo; But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, &ldquo;Go and tell my servant David, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord: It is not you who will build me a house to dwell in. For I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up Israel to this day, but I have gone from tent to tent and from dwelling to dwelling. ...	equipment,receiving
0	1 Chronicles 19:13	Be strong, and let us use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God, and may the Lord do what seems good to him.&rdquo;	courage
0	1 Chronicles 19:18	And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of 7,000 chariots and 40,000 foot soldiers, and put to death also Shophach the commander of their army.	almighty
0	1 Chronicles 21:1	Then Satan stood against Israel and incited David to number Israel.	devil,nearness
0	1 Chronicles 21:15	And God sent the angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, but as he was about to destroy it, the Lord saw, and he relented from the calamity. And he said to the angel who was working destruction, &ldquo;It is enough; now stay your hand.&rdquo; And the angel of the Lord was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.	angels
0	1 Chronicles 22:13	Then you will prosper if you are careful to observe the statutes and the rules that the Lord commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Fear not; do not be dismayed.	courage
0	1 Chronicles 22:19	Now set your mind and heart to seek the Lord your God. Arise and build the sanctuary of the Lord God, so that the ark of the covenant of the Lord and the holy vessels of God may be brought into a house built for the name of the Lord.&rdquo;	seeking
0	1 Chronicles 22:9	Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies. For his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days.	rest
0	1 Chronicles 28:20	Then David said to Solomon his son, &ldquo;Be strong and courageous and do it. Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed, for the Lord God, even my God, is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you, until all the work for the service of the house of the Lord is finished.	courage,fear
0	1 Chronicles 28:9	&ldquo;And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.	mind,seeking,serving
0	1 Chronicles 28:9-10	&ldquo;And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. Be careful now, for the Lord has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong and do it.&rdquo;	blood
0	1 Chronicles 29:11	Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and you are exalted as head above all.	creation,strength
0	1 Chronicles 29:12	Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. In your hand are power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all.	strength
0	1 Chronicles 29:14	&ldquo;But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able thus to offer willingly? For all things come from you, and of your own have we given you.	generosity,money
0	1 Chronicles 29:17	I know, my God, that you test the heart and have pleasure in uprightness. In the uprightness of my heart I have freely offered all these things, and now I have seen your people, who are present here, offering freely and joyously to you.	honesty
0	1 Chronicles 29:9	Then the people rejoiced because they had given willingly, for with a whole heart they had offered freely to the Lord. David the king also rejoiced greatly.	giving
0	1 Corinthians 1:10	I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.	church,community,family,thoughts,transformation
0	1 Corinthians 1:11	For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers.	gossip
0	1 Corinthians 1:1-31	Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes, To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus, that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge&mdash; ...	community
0	1 Corinthians 1:13-17	Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.) For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.	baptism
0	1 Corinthians 1:17	For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.	church,equipment,evangelism
0	1 Corinthians 1:18	For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.	strength,the-word
0	1 Corinthians 1:2	To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:	following,holiness,purification
0	1 Corinthians 1:24	But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.	wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 1:25	For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.	wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 1:25-29	For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong; God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 1:26	For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth.	calling
0	1 Corinthians 1:26-27	For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong;	calling
0	1 Corinthians 1:26-29	For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong; God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.	weakness
0	1 Corinthians 1:27-29	But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong; God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.	kingdom
0	1 Corinthians 1:28	God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are,	humility
0	1 Corinthians 1:28-29	God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.	calling,humility,pride
0	1 Corinthians 1:30	And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption,	holiness,purification,righteousness,sin,wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 1:4	I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus,	gratitude,prayer
0	1 Corinthians 1:7-18	So that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. ...	addiction
0	1 Corinthians 1:9	God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.	calling,god,reliability
0	1 Corinthians 10:12	Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.	pride
0	1 Corinthians 10:1-2	For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,	baptism
0	1 Corinthians 10:13	No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.	addiction,awe,courage,debt,dependence,devil,encouragement,faith,faithfulness,forgiveness,god,health,learning,mercy,overcoming,promises,protection,reconciliation,reliability,self-control,sickness,sin,strength,suffering,temptation,thoughts,weakness,worrying
0	1 Corinthians 10:13-14	No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.	addiction
0	1 Corinthians 10:1-33	For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. ...	idols
0	1 Corinthians 10:14	Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.	idols
0	1 Corinthians 10:14-24	Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel: are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? ...	materialism
0	1 Corinthians 10:15-17	I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.	dependence
0	1 Corinthians 10:17	Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.	bread,church
0	1 Corinthians 10:2	And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,	baptism
0	1 Corinthians 10:20	No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons.	sacrifice
0	1 Corinthians 10:20-21	No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.	food
0	1 Corinthians 10:21-24	You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? &ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things are helpful. &ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things build up. Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.	christmas
0	1 Corinthians 10:23	&ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things are helpful. &ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things build up.	equipment,freedom,goodness,law
0	1 Corinthians 10:23-33	&ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things are helpful. &ldquo;All things are lawful,&rdquo; but not all things build up. Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor. Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience. For &ldquo;the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof.&rdquo; If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience. ...	freedom
0	1 Corinthians 10:24	Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.	compassion,selfishness
0	1 Corinthians 10:29	I do not mean your conscience, but his. For why should my liberty be determined by someone else's conscience?	freedom
0	1 Corinthians 10:31	So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.	body,clothing,fasting,food,health,pride,wine,work
0	1 Corinthians 11:1	Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.	following
0	1 Corinthians 11:11	Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman;	marriage
0	1 Corinthians 11:12	For as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.	marriage
0	1 Corinthians 11:1-2	Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I delivered them to you.	evangelism
0	1 Corinthians 11:1-34	Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I delivered them to you. But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God. Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head, but every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head, since it is the same as if her head were shaven. ...	clothing,confession
0	1 Corinthians 11:14-15	Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him, but if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For her hair is given to her for a covering.	acknowledging
0	1 Corinthians 11:16-24	If anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no such practice, nor do the churches of God. But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse. For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I believe it in part, for there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat. ...	christmas
0	1 Corinthians 11:18	For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I believe it in part,	church
0	1 Corinthians 11:20	When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.	confession
0	1 Corinthians 11:23	For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,	bread
0	1 Corinthians 11:23-25	For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, &ldquo;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&rdquo; In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, &ldquo;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Corinthians 11:23-26	For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, &ldquo;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&rdquo; In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, &ldquo;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&rdquo; For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.	covenant,easter,sacrifice
0	1 Corinthians 11:24	And when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, &ldquo;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Corinthians 11:24-30	And when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, &ldquo;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&rdquo; In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, &ldquo;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&rdquo; For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. ...	blood
0	1 Corinthians 11:25	In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, &ldquo;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&rdquo;	covenant
0	1 Corinthians 11:26	For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.	bread
0	1 Corinthians 11:27-30	Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died.	dependence
0	1 Corinthians 11:29	For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.	food
0	1 Corinthians 11:3	But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God.	comforter,family,marriage,mediator,redeemer
0	1 Corinthians 11:6-10	For if a wife will not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a wife to cut off her hair or shave her head, let her cover her head. For a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory of man. For man was not made from woman, but woman from man. Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.	clothing
0	1 Corinthians 11:9-12	Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman; for as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.	marriage
0	1 Corinthians 12:10	To another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues.	miracles
0	1 Corinthians 12:11	All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 12:12	For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ.	body,church
0	1 Corinthians 12:12-27	For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&mdash;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&mdash;and all were made to drink of one Spirit. For the body does not consist of one member but of many. If the foot should say, &ldquo;Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,&rdquo; that would not make it any less a part of the body. And if the ear should say, &ldquo;Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,&rdquo; that would not make it any less a part of the body. ...	acknowledging,church
0	1 Corinthians 12:13	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&mdash;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&mdash;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.	baptism,blameless,body,church,community,holy-spirit,slavery,spirit
0	1 Corinthians 12:1-31	Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led. Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says &ldquo;Jesus is accursed!&rdquo; and no one can say &ldquo;Jesus is Lord&rdquo; except in the Holy Spirit. Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; ...	baptism,body,community,fruitfulness,holy-spirit,prophecy
0	1 Corinthians 12:14	For the body does not consist of one member but of many.	body
0	1 Corinthians 12:2	You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led.	idols
0	1 Corinthians 12:25-26	That there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.	church,compassion
0	1 Corinthians 12:25-27	That there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together. Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it.	community
0	1 Corinthians 12:27	Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it.	body,church
0	1 Corinthians 12:28	And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues.	church,equipment,holy-spirit,miracles
0	1 Corinthians 12:31	But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.	holy-spirit,miracles
0	1 Corinthians 12:4-11	Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, ...	prophecy
0	1 Corinthians 12:4-31	Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, ...	awe
0	1 Corinthians 12:4-6	Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone.	miracles
0	1 Corinthians 12:5	And there are varieties of service, but the same Lord;	church
0	1 Corinthians 12:7	To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.	holy-spirit,miracles
0	1 Corinthians 12:7-11	To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 12:8	For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit,	almighty
0	1 Corinthians 12:8-10	For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 12:9	To another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,	grace,healing
0	1 Corinthians 13:1	If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.	holy-spirit,love
0	1 Corinthians 13:1-13	If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; ...	body,compassion,family,friendship,gentleness,holy-spirit,jesus,love,marriage,patience,relationships,sickness
0	1 Corinthians 13:13	So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.	faith,hope,love,marriage,planning,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 13:1-3	If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.	love,neighbor
0	1 Corinthians 13:2	And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.	faith,love
0	1 Corinthians 13:3	If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.	giving,pride,suffering
0	1 Corinthians 13:4	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant	humility,love,patience,pride
0	1 Corinthians 13:4-5	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;	anger,gentleness,love,patience,self-control
0	1 Corinthians 13:4-6	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.	selfishness,truth
0	1 Corinthians 13:4-7	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.	love,marriage,neighbor,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 13:4-8	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.	love,marriage,neighbor
0	1 Corinthians 13:6	It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.	honesty
0	1 Corinthians 13:8-10	Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 14:1	Pursue love, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.	christmas,prophecy
0	1 Corinthians 14:12	So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.	planning
0	1 Corinthians 14:1-40	Pursue love, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit. On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church. Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up. ...	confession,holy-spirit,pentecost,speaking
0	1 Corinthians 14:15	What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also.	mind,singing
0	1 Corinthians 14:19	Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.	church
0	1 Corinthians 14:2	For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 14:20	Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature.	children
0	1 Corinthians 14:22	Thus tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers.	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 14:23	If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds?	pentecost
0	1 Corinthians 14:26	What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.	church,pentecost
0	1 Corinthians 14:3	On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.	equipment,prophecy
0	1 Corinthians 14:31	For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged,	encouragement,equipment
0	1 Corinthians 14:33	For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,	blameless,church,peace,safety
0	1 Corinthians 14:35	If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.	speaking
0	1 Corinthians 14:40	But all things should be done decently and in order.	planning,safety
0	1 Corinthians 15:10	But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me.	blessing,grace,gratitude,reward,work
0	1 Corinthians 15:12-32	Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. ...	resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:1-4	Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you&mdash;unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,	church
0	1 Corinthians 15:1-58	Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you&mdash;unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. ...	resurrection,salvation
0	1 Corinthians 15:17	And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins.	easter,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:19	If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied.	hope
0	1 Corinthians 15:2	And by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you&mdash;unless you believed in vain.	overcoming,second-coming
0	1 Corinthians 15:20	But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.	easter,pentecost,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:20-23	But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.	resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:21	For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.	death,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:21-22	For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.	easter,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:22	For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.	death,eternal-life
0	1 Corinthians 15:23	But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.	second-coming
0	1 Corinthians 15:26	The last enemy to be destroyed is death.	death
0	1 Corinthians 15:28	When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection under him, that God may be all in all.	blameless,comforter,redeemer
0	1 Corinthians 15:29	Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?	baptism
0	1 Corinthians 15:3	For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures,	awe,easter
0	1 Corinthians 15:33	Do not be deceived: &ldquo;Bad company ruins good morals.&rdquo;	addiction,dependence,evil,friendship,fruitfulness,goodness,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 15:33-36	Do not be deceived: &ldquo;Bad company ruins good morals.&rdquo; Wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, and do not go on sinning. For some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame. But someone will ask, &ldquo;How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?&rdquo; You foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.	self-control
0	1 Corinthians 15:3-4	For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,	easter,resurrection,sacrifice
0	1 Corinthians 15:3-6	For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.	eternal-life
0	1 Corinthians 15:3-8	For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. ...	easter,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:4	That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,	awe,easter
0	1 Corinthians 15:42	So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable.	materialism
0	1 Corinthians 15:42-44	So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.	death,easter,second-coming
0	1 Corinthians 15:43	It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.	body
0	1 Corinthians 15:44	It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.	body
0	1 Corinthians 15:51	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,	death,rebirth
0	1 Corinthians 15:51-52	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.	heaven,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:51-53	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.	resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:51-54	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: &ldquo;Death is swallowed up in victory.&rdquo;	eternal-life
0	1 Corinthians 15:51-55	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: &ldquo;Death is swallowed up in victory.&rdquo; &ldquo;O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?&rdquo;	soul
0	1 Corinthians 15:51-57	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: &ldquo;Death is swallowed up in victory.&rdquo; &ldquo;O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?&rdquo; ...	death
0	1 Corinthians 15:52	In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.	rebirth
0	1 Corinthians 15:55	&ldquo;O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?&rdquo;	death
0	1 Corinthians 15:55-57	&ldquo;O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?&rdquo; The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.	death
0	1 Corinthians 15:57	But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.	courage,gratitude,overcoming,praise,sin
0	1 Corinthians 15:58	Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.	courage,encouragement,reconciliation,reward,serving,work
0	1 Corinthians 15:6	Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.	resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 15:9	For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.	humility
0	1 Corinthians 16:13	Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.	courage,encouragement,faith,fear,freedom,strength,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 16:14	Let all that you do be done in love.	love,marriage,planning,work
0	1 Corinthians 16:19	The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Prisca, together with the church in their house, send you hearty greetings in the Lord.	church
0	1 Corinthians 16:2	On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come.	debt,giving,money,pentecost
0	1 Corinthians 16:8	But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,	pentecost
0	1 Corinthians 2:10	These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.	comforter,holy-spirit,planning,spirit
0	1 Corinthians 2:10-11	These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.	clothing
0	1 Corinthians 2:11	For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.	comforter,mediator,mind,spirit,thoughts,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 2:1-10:33	And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God. ...	planning
0	1 Corinthians 2:1-16	And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God. ...	holy-spirit,understanding,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 2:12	Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.	understanding,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 2:12-13	Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 2:13	And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.	holy-spirit,understanding
0	1 Corinthians 2:14	The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.	purification,rebirth,spirit
0	1 Corinthians 2:14-16	The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one. &ldquo;For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?&rdquo; But we have the mind of Christ.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 2:15	The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.	receiving
0	1 Corinthians 2:1-5	And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.	evangelism
0	1 Corinthians 2:16	&ldquo;For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?&rdquo; But we have the mind of Christ.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 2:2	For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 2:3	And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling,	weakness
0	1 Corinthians 2:4	And my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,	holy-spirit
0	1 Corinthians 2:5	That your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.	faith,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 2:6-16	Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to pass away. But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory. None of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But, as it is written, &ldquo;What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him&rdquo;&mdash; these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. ...	wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 2:9	But, as it is written, &ldquo;What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him&rdquo;&mdash;	blessing,heaven,hope,life,reward,suffering
0	1 Corinthians 2:9-10	But, as it is written, &ldquo;What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him&rdquo;&mdash; these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.	mind
0	1 Corinthians 3:10-15	According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw&mdash; each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. ...	reward
0	1 Corinthians 3:11	For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.	greed
0	1 Corinthians 3:11-15	For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw&mdash; each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.	judgment,reward
0	1 Corinthians 3:12-15	Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw&mdash; each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.	reward
0	1 Corinthians 3:14	If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.	reward
0	1 Corinthians 3:1-4:21	But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready, for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? For when one says, &ldquo;I follow Paul,&rdquo; and another, &ldquo;I follow Apollos,&rdquo; are you not being merely human? What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each. ...	addiction
0	1 Corinthians 3:15	If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.	purification
0	1 Corinthians 3:16	Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?	holiness,holy-spirit,orphans
0	1 Corinthians 3:16-17	Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.	body,health
0	1 Corinthians 3:17	If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.	church,freedom,health,holiness
0	1 Corinthians 3:18	Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.	wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 3:18-20	Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, &ldquo;He catches the wise in their craftiness,&rdquo; and again, &ldquo;The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile.&rdquo;	mind
0	1 Corinthians 3:19	For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, &ldquo;He catches the wise in their craftiness,&rdquo;	wisdom
0	1 Corinthians 3:3	For you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way?	purification
0	1 Corinthians 3:7	So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.	evangelism
0	1 Corinthians 3:7-14	So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor. For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. ...	family
0	1 Corinthians 3:8	He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor.	dependence,judgment,reward
0	1 Corinthians 3:9	For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building.	church
0	1 Corinthians 4:11-13	To the present hour we hunger and thirst, we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless, and we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure; when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are still, like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things.	greed
0	1 Corinthians 4:12	And we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;	work
0	1 Corinthians 4:1-21	This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy. But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me. Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God. ...	poverty
0	1 Corinthians 4:12-21	And we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure; when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are still, like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things. I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children. For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. I urge you, then, be imitators of me. ...	gentleness
0	1 Corinthians 4:15	For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.	father
0	1 Corinthians 4:15-16	For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. I urge you, then, be imitators of me.	father
0	1 Corinthians 4:2	Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy.	faithfulness
0	1 Corinthians 4:20	For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.	kingdom,mind,world
0	1 Corinthians 4:21	What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love in a spirit of gentleness?	gentleness
0	1 Corinthians 4:2-4	Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy. But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.	reliability
0	1 Corinthians 4:5	Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God.	clothing,judgment,reconciliation,reward,second-coming
0	1 Corinthians 4:6	I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another.	pride
0	1 Corinthians 4:7	For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it?	pride
0	1 Corinthians 4:7-9	For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Already you have all you want! Already you have become rich! Without us you have become kings! And would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you! For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.	gratitude
0	1 Corinthians 5:10	Not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world.	second-coming
0	1 Corinthians 5:11	But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler&mdash;not even to eat with such a one.	addiction,greed,self-control
0	1 Corinthians 5:1-13	It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife. And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you. For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. ...	selfishness
0	1 Corinthians 5:7	Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.	bread,easter
0	1 Corinthians 5:8	Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.	bread,truth
0	1 Corinthians 6:10	Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.	self-control,speaking
0	1 Corinthians 6:11	And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.	desires,holy-spirit,kingdom,purification
0	1 Corinthians 6:12	&ldquo;All things are lawful for me,&rdquo; but not all things are helpful. &ldquo;All things are lawful for me,&rdquo; but I will not be enslaved by anything.	addiction,body,dependence,food,freedom,nearness,self-control,slavery
0	1 Corinthians 6:13	&ldquo;Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food&rdquo;&mdash;and God will destroy both one and the other. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.	body,food,temptation
0	1 Corinthians 6:14	And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power.	easter,resurrection
0	1 Corinthians 6:16	Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is written, &ldquo;The two will become one flesh.&rdquo;	marriage,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 6:18	Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body.	almighty,awe,body,desires,relationships,self-control,thoughts
0	1 Corinthians 6:1-8:13	When one of you has a grievance against another, does he dare go to law before the unrighteous instead of the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases? Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life! So if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church? I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers, ...	addiction
0	1 Corinthians 6:18-20	Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.	temptation
0	1 Corinthians 6:19	Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own,	body,gentleness,health,holiness,holy-spirit,self-control,spirit
0	1 Corinthians 6:19-20	Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.	body,clothing,father,food,freedom,health,idols,mind,receiving,rest,sin,thoughts,trust,valuable,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 6:2	Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases?	judgment
0	1 Corinthians 6:20	For you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.	body,clothing,health,holiness
0	1 Corinthians 6:3	Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life!	angels,kingdom
0	1 Corinthians 6:9	Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,	almighty,kingdom,lying,receiving,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 6:9-10	Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.	clothing,desires,greed,kingdom,relationships,sin,wine
0	1 Corinthians 6:9-11	Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.	almighty,dependence,following,greed,heaven,lying,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 7:10-11	To the married I give this charge (not I, but the Lord): the wife should not separate from her husband (but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband should not divorce his wife.	family,reconciliation
0	1 Corinthians 7:11	(but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband should not divorce his wife.	reconciliation
0	1 Corinthians 7:12-15	To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace.	marriage
0	1 Corinthians 7:1-40	Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: &ldquo;It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.&rdquo; But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband. For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. ...	awe,holy-spirit,marriage,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 7:15	But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace.	reconciliation,understanding
0	1 Corinthians 7:1-5	Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: &ldquo;It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.&rdquo; But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband. For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.	fasting
0	1 Corinthians 7:17	Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches.	calling,contentment
0	1 Corinthians 7:2	But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.	marriage,relationships,temptation
0	1 Corinthians 7:20	Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called.	contentment
0	1 Corinthians 7:21	Were you a slave when called? Do not be concerned about it. (But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity.)	freedom,slavery
0	1 Corinthians 7:21-23	Were you a slave when called? Do not be concerned about it. (But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity.) For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a slave of Christ. You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men.	slavery
0	1 Corinthians 7:22	For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a slave of Christ.	freedom
0	1 Corinthians 7:24	So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God.	contentment
0	1 Corinthians 7:24-40	So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God. Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy. I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a person to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you do marry, you have not sinned, and if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that. ...	marriage
0	1 Corinthians 7:3	The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband.	marriage,relationships
0	1 Corinthians 7:39	A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.	marriage,relationships,widows
0	1 Corinthians 7:5	Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.	devil,fasting,relationships,self-control,temptation
0	1 Corinthians 7:8	To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am.	widows
0	1 Corinthians 7:9	But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion.	marriage,relationships,self-control,widows
0	1 Corinthians 8:1-13	Now concerning food offered to idols: we know that &ldquo;all of us possess knowledge.&rdquo; This &ldquo;knowledge&rdquo; puffs up, but love builds up. If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by God. Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that &ldquo;an idol has no real existence,&rdquo; and that &ldquo;there is no God but one.&rdquo; For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth&mdash;as indeed there are many &ldquo;gods&rdquo; and many &ldquo;lords&rdquo;&mdash; ...	freedom
0	1 Corinthians 8:1-9:27	Now concerning food offered to idols: we know that &ldquo;all of us possess knowledge.&rdquo; This &ldquo;knowledge&rdquo; puffs up, but love builds up. If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by God. Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that &ldquo;an idol has no real existence,&rdquo; and that &ldquo;there is no God but one.&rdquo; For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth&mdash;as indeed there are many &ldquo;gods&rdquo; and many &ldquo;lords&rdquo;&mdash; ...	christmas
0	1 Corinthians 8:2	If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know.	pride
0	1 Corinthians 8:3	But if anyone loves God, he is known by God.	calling
0	1 Corinthians 8:4	Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that &ldquo;an idol has no real existence,&rdquo; and that &ldquo;there is no God but one.&rdquo;	comforter
0	1 Corinthians 8:6	Yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist.	comforter,creation,father,mediator,redeemer
0	1 Corinthians 8:8	Food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do.	fasting,food
0	1 Corinthians 8:9	But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak.	addiction,equipment,freedom
0	1 Corinthians 8:9-13	But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged, if his conscience is weak, to eat food offered to idols? And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died. Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble.	freedom,wine
0	1 Corinthians 9:16	For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel!	evangelism
0	1 Corinthians 9:19	For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them.	freedom,serving
0	1 Corinthians 9:22	To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some.	evangelism,weakness
0	1 Corinthians 9:24	Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it.	self-control
0	1 Corinthians 9:24-25	Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.	reward,self-control
0	1 Corinthians 9:24-27	Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do not run aimlessly; I do not box as one beating the air. But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.	body,health,self-control
0	1 Corinthians 9:25	Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.	self-control
0	1 Corinthians 9:27	But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.	body,fasting,judgment,self-control
0	1 Corinthians 9:5	Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?	marriage,mediator
0	1 John 1:1	That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life&mdash;	conversion
0	1 John 1:1-10	That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life&mdash; the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us&mdash; that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. ...	sin
0	1 John 1:1-2	That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life&mdash; the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us&mdash;	the-word
0	1 John 1:1-4	That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life&mdash; the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us&mdash; that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.	savior
0	1 John 1:3	That which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.	reliability
0	1 John 1:4	And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.	joy
0	1 John 1:5	This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.	god,goodness,light
0	1 John 1:5-7	This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.	light
0	1 John 1:5-9	This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.	light
0	1 John 1:6	If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth.	confession,honesty,truth
0	1 John 1:6-8	If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.	kingdom
0	1 John 1:7	But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.	blood,church,community,holiness,light,purification,sacrifice,savior
0	1 John 1:7-10	But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.	light
0	1 John 1:7-9	But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.	blood
0	1 John 1:8	If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.	forgiveness,thoughts,truth
0	1 John 1:8-10	If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.	anger,sin
0	1 John 1:9	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.	awe,blameless,blood,church,compassion,confession,conversion,equipment,evil,faithfulness,fear,forgiveness,friendship,god,goodness,holiness,learning,life,lying,mercy,overcoming,prayer,promises,punishment,purification,reconciliation,redeemer,repentance,righteousness,sadness,salvation,seeking,sin,temptation,thoughts,transformation,valuable
0	1 John 1:9-10	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.	forgiveness
0	1 John 2:1	My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.	forgiveness,holiness
0	1 John 2:11	But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.	sin
0	1 John 2:12	I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake.	forgiveness
0	1 John 2:1-29	My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever says &ldquo;I know him&rdquo; but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him: ...	anger,fasting,fruitfulness,holy-spirit,pride
0	1 John 2:15	Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.	world
0	1 John 2:15-16	Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world&mdash;the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions&mdash;is not from the Father but is from the world.	encouragement,selfishness
0	1 John 2:15-17	Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world&mdash;the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions&mdash;is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.	greed,materialism,money,pride,temptation
0	1 John 2:15-18	Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world&mdash;the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions&mdash;is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard that antichrist is coming, so now many antichrists have come. Therefore we know that it is the last hour.	world
0	1 John 2:16	For all that is in the world&mdash;the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions&mdash;is not from the Father but is from the world.	addiction,dependence,greed,materialism,pride,self-control,temptation
0	1 John 2:16-17	For all that is in the world&mdash;the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions&mdash;is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.	pride
0	1 John 2:17	And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.	encouragement,obedience,seeking
0	1 John 2:18	Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard that antichrist is coming, so now many antichrists have come. Therefore we know that it is the last hour.	prophecy
0	1 John 2:2	He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world.	blood,forgiveness,kingdom,sacrifice,savior
0	1 John 2:25	And this is the promise that he made to us&mdash;eternal life.	eternal-life,promises
0	1 John 2:27	But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie&mdash;just as it has taught you, abide in him.	learning,spirit,truth
0	1 John 2:29	If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him.	righteousness
0	1 John 2:3-6	And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever says &ldquo;I know him&rdquo; but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him: whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked.	transformation
0	1 John 2:4	Whoever says &ldquo;I know him&rdquo; but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,	confession,law,lying
0	1 John 2:6	Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked.	friendship
0	1 John 2:9-11	Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.	understanding
0	1 John 3:1	See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him.	children,father,god,love,neighbor,persecution,relationships
0	1 John 3:10	By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.	acknowledging,devil
0	1 John 3:11	For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.	neighbor
0	1 John 3:13	Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you.	persecution
0	1 John 3:15	Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.	anger,eternal-life,purification
0	1 John 3:16	By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.	jesus,love,neighbor,sacrifice
0	1 John 3:16-18	By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.	generosity,love,sacrifice
0	1 John 3:16-5:18	By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him; for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything. ...	courage
0	1 John 3:17	But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him?	compassion,debt,equipment,generosity,giving,materialism,neighbor,poverty,selfishness,serving
0	1 John 3:17-18	But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.	giving,serving
0	1 John 3:18	Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.	honesty,love,neighbor,serving,truth
0	1 John 3:2	Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is.	blameless,death,heaven,purification,resurrection,second-coming,transformation
0	1 John 3:21-22	Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do what pleases him.	law
0	1 John 3:22	And whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do what pleases him.	obedience,prayer
0	1 John 3:2-3	Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure.	children,holiness,transformation
0	1 John 3:24	Whoever keeps his commandments abides in God, and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us.	obedience
0	1 John 3:2-4:20	Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. ...	family
0	1 John 3:3	And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure.	fruitfulness,holiness,hope,purification,reconciliation
0	1 John 3:4	Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness.	law,punishment,sin
0	1 John 3:4-10	Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. ...	devil
0	1 John 3:6	No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.	blameless,fear
0	1 John 3:6-10	No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.	holiness,sin
0	1 John 3:6-5:18	No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. ...	addiction
0	1 John 3:7	Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.	friendship,righteousness
0	1 John 3:8	Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.	dependence,devil
0	1 John 3:9	No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God.	blameless,mind,rebirth
0	1 John 4:1	Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out into the world.	almighty,blameless,faithfulness,idols,lying,rebirth,spirit,the-word
0	1 John 4:10	In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.	grace,sacrifice
0	1 John 4:11	Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.	community,love,neighbor
0	1 John 4:12	No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us.	love
0	1 John 4:13	By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.	reconciliation,spirit
0	1 John 4:14	And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.	savior
0	1 John 4:15	Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.	confession
0	1 John 4:16	So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.	fruitfulness,god,health,jesus,love,neighbor,trust
0	1 John 4:17	By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this world.	judgment
0	1 John 4:18	There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love.	awe,courage,fear,love,mind,neighbor,overcoming,punishment,spirit,trust,weakness,worrying
0	1 John 4:18-19	There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us.	soul
0	1 John 4:19	We love because he first loved us.	family,god,love,neighbor,pentecost
0	1 John 4:19-21	We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, &ldquo;I love God,&rdquo; and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.	community
0	1 John 4:19-5:4	We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, &ldquo;I love God,&rdquo; and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his commandments. ...	harvest
0	1 John 4:2	By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God,	confession
0	1 John 4:20	If anyone says, &ldquo;I love God,&rdquo; and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.	grace,love,thoughts
0	1 John 4:20-21	If anyone says, &ldquo;I love God,&rdquo; and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.	blood,neighbor
0	1 John 4:21	And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.	friendship,law,love,neighbor
0	1 John 4:3	And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.	confession
0	1 John 4:4	Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.	awe,blessing,comforter,devil,evil,mind,overcoming,protection,reconciliation,temptation,thoughts
0	1 John 4:5-6	They are from the world; therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them. We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.	mind
0	1 John 4:6	We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.	truth
0	1 John 4:7	Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God.	friendship,love,marriage,neighbor,rebirth,relationships,weakness
0	1 John 4:7-8	Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love.	love
0	1 John 4:8	Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love.	conversion,god,hell,love,relationships
0	1 John 4:9	In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him.	neighbor
0	1 John 5:1	Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him.	faith,mediator
0	1 John 5:11	And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.	christmas,eternal-life
0	1 John 5:11-12	And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.	eternal-life
0	1 John 5:11-13	And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life.	eternal-life
0	1 John 5:12	Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.	death
0	1 John 5:13	I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life.	eternal-life,faith,life,salvation
0	1 John 5:14	And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us.	listening,prayer,promises,trust
0	1 John 5:14-15	And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.	prayer
0	1 John 5:15	And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.	listening,prayer
0	1 John 5:17	All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death.	sin
0	1 John 5:18	We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him.	blameless,protection,righteousness,safety
0	1 John 5:18-19	We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him. We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.	devil
0	1 John 5:19	We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.	conversion,devil,evil,materialism,protection,world
0	1 John 5:20	And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.	comforter,contentment,eternal-life,life,truth,understanding
0	1 John 5:21	Little children, keep yourselves from idols.	children,idols
0	1 John 5:2-3	By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.	obedience
0	1 John 5:3	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.	blameless,law,obedience,sacrifice
0	1 John 5:3-4	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world&mdash;our faith.	overcoming
0	1 John 5:4	For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world&mdash;our faith.	dependence,faith,holiness,overcoming,rebirth
0	1 John 5:4-5	For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world&mdash;our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?	overcoming
0	1 John 5:5	Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?	overcoming
0	1 John 5:5-8	Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? This is he who came by water and blood&mdash;Jesus Christ; not by the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify: the Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree.	heaven
0	1 John 5:6	This is he who came by water and blood&mdash;Jesus Christ; not by the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth.	blood
0	1 John 5:7	For there are three that testify:	comforter,holy-spirit
0	1 John 5:8	The Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree.	blood
0	1 Kings 1:40	And all the people went up after him, playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth was split by their noise.	joy
0	1 Kings 11:2-11	From the nations concerning which the Lord had said to the people of Israel, &ldquo;You shall not enter into marriage with them, neither shall they with you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods.&rdquo; Solomon clung to these in love. He had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart. For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not wholly true to the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and did not wholly follow the Lord, as David his father had done. ...	idols
0	1 Kings 11:36	Yet to his son I will give one tribe, that David my servant may always have a lamp before me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen to put my name.	light
0	1 Kings 11:9	And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart had turned away from the Lord, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice	anger
0	1 Kings 12:27	If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the temple of the Lord at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will turn again to their lord, to Rehoboam king of Judah, and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.&rdquo;	idols
0	1 Kings 13:2	And the man cried against the altar by the word of the Lord and said, &ldquo;O altar, altar, thus says the Lord: &lsquo;Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name, and he shall sacrifice on you the priests of the high places who make offerings on you, and human bones shall be burned on you.&rsquo;&rdquo;	sacrifice
0	1 Kings 14:3	Take with you ten loaves, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what shall happen to the child.&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Kings 17:12	And she said, &ldquo;As the Lord your God lives, I have nothing baked, only a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. And now I am gathering a couple of sticks that I may go in and prepare it for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die.&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Kings 17:1-24	Now Elijah the Tishbite, of Tishbe in Gilead, said to Ahab, &ldquo;As the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, before whom I stand, there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word.&rdquo; And the word of the Lord came to him: &ldquo;Depart from here and turn eastward and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan. You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.&rdquo; So he went and did according to the word of the Lord. He went and lived by the brook Cherith that is east of the Jordan. ...	widows
0	1 Kings 17:24	And the woman said to Elijah, &ldquo;Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.&rdquo;	truth
0	1 Kings 18:25-29	Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, &ldquo;Choose for yourselves one bull and prepare it first, for you are many, and call upon the name of your god, but put no fire to it.&rdquo; And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, &ldquo;O Baal, answer us!&rdquo; But there was no voice, and no one answered. And they limped around the altar that they had made. And at noon Elijah mocked them, saying, &ldquo;Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he is relieving himself, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened.&rdquo; And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances, until the blood gushed out upon them. And as midday passed, they raved on until the time of the offering of the oblation, but there was no voice. No one answered; no one paid attention.	idols
0	1 Kings 18:26-28	And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, &ldquo;O Baal, answer us!&rdquo; But there was no voice, and no one answered. And they limped around the altar that they had made. And at noon Elijah mocked them, saying, &ldquo;Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he is relieving himself, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened.&rdquo; And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances, until the blood gushed out upon them.	equipment
0	1 Kings 19:11-13	And he said, &ldquo;Go out and stand on the mount before the Lord.&rdquo; And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore the mountains and broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire the sound of a low whisper. And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his cloak and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him and said, &ldquo;What are you doing here, Elijah?&rdquo;	calling
0	1 Kings 19:1-21	Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, &ldquo;So may the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow.&rdquo; Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree. And he asked that he might die, saying, &ldquo;It is enough; now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am no better than my fathers.&rdquo; And he lay down and slept under a broom tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him, &ldquo;Arise and eat.&rdquo; ...	confession,equipment,receiving
0	1 Kings 19:16	And Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint to be king over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint to be prophet in your place.	christmas
0	1 Kings 19:6	And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on hot stones and a jar of water. And he ate and drank and lay down again.	bread
0	1 Kings 19:8	And he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mount of God.	fasting
0	1 Kings 2:2	&ldquo;I am about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong, and show yourself a man,	courage
0	1 Kings 2:3	And keep the charge of the Lord your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his commandments, his rules, and his testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn,	blessing
0	1 Kings 21:1-22:53	Now Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. And after this Ahab said to Naboth, &ldquo;Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near my house, and I will give you a better vineyard for it; or, if it seems good to you, I will give you its value in money.&rdquo; But Naboth said to Ahab, &ldquo;The Lord forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers.&rdquo; And Ahab went into his house vexed and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him, for he had said, &ldquo;I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.&rdquo; And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, &ldquo;Why is your spirit so vexed that you eat no food?&rdquo; ...	greed
0	1 Kings 21:1-29	Now Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. And after this Ahab said to Naboth, &ldquo;Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near my house, and I will give you a better vineyard for it; or, if it seems good to you, I will give you its value in money.&rdquo; But Naboth said to Ahab, &ldquo;The Lord forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers.&rdquo; And Ahab went into his house vexed and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him, for he had said, &ldquo;I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.&rdquo; And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, &ldquo;Why is your spirit so vexed that you eat no food?&rdquo; ...	work
0	1 Kings 21:27	And when Ahab heard those words, he tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his flesh and fasted and lay in sackcloth and went about dejectedly.	fasting
0	1 Kings 21:29	&ldquo;Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the disaster in his days; but in his son's days I will bring the disaster upon his house.&rdquo;	humility
0	1 Kings 22:21-23	Then a spirit came forward and stood before the Lord, saying, &lsquo;I will entice him.&rsquo; And the Lord said to him, &lsquo;By what means?&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.&rsquo; Now therefore behold, the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; the Lord has declared disaster for you.&rdquo;	lying
0	1 Kings 22:27	And say, &lsquo;Thus says the king, &ldquo;Put this fellow in prison and feed him meager rations of bread and water, until I come in peace.&rdquo;&rsquo;&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Kings 3:11-12	And God said to him, &ldquo;Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right, behold, I now do according to your word. Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you.	selfishness
0	1 Kings 3:11-13	And God said to him, &ldquo;Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right, behold, I now do according to your word. Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you. I give you also what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that no other king shall compare with you, all your days.	contentment
0	1 Kings 3:1-28	Solomon made a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt. He took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her into the city of David until he had finished building his own house and the house of the Lord and the wall around Jerusalem. The people were sacrificing at the high places, however, because no house had yet been built for the name of the Lord. Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father, only he sacrificed and made offerings at the high places. And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. Solomon used to offer a thousand burnt offerings on that altar. At Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, &ldquo;Ask what I shall give you.&rdquo; ...	faithfulness
0	1 Kings 3:9	Give your servant therefore an understanding mind to govern your people, that I may discern between good and evil, for who is able to govern this your great people?&rdquo;	listening
0	1 Kings 4:25	And Judah and Israel lived in safety, from Dan even to Beersheba, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, all the days of Solomon.	safety
0	1 Kings 4:26	Solomon also had 40,000 stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen.	almighty
0	1 Kings 5:4	But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor misfortune.	safety
0	1 Kings 6:1-38	In the four hundred and eightieth year after the people of Israel came out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv, which is the second month, he began to build the house of the Lord. The house that King Solomon built for the Lord was sixty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and thirty cubits high. The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house, and ten cubits deep in front of the house. And he made for the house windows with recessed frames. He also built a structure against the wall of the house, running around the walls of the house, both the nave and the inner sanctuary. And he made side chambers all around. ...	work
0	1 Kings 8:30	And listen to the plea of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And listen in heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.	heaven
0	1 Kings 8:39	Then hear in heaven your dwelling place and forgive and act and render to each whose heart you know, according to all his ways (for you, you only, know the hearts of all the children of mankind),	heart
0	1 Kings 8:46-48	&ldquo;If they sin against you&mdash;for there is no one who does not sin&mdash;and you are angry with them and give them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near, yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive, and repent and plead with you in the land of their captors, saying, &lsquo;We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,&rsquo; if they repent with all their mind and with all their heart in the land of their enemies, who carried them captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, and the house that I have built for your name,	forgiveness
0	1 Kings 8:46-50	&ldquo;If they sin against you&mdash;for there is no one who does not sin&mdash;and you are angry with them and give them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near, yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive, and repent and plead with you in the land of their captors, saying, &lsquo;We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,&rsquo; if they repent with all their mind and with all their heart in the land of their enemies, who carried them captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, and the house that I have built for your name, then hear in heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause and forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions that they have committed against you, and grant them compassion in the sight of those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them	forgiveness
0	1 Kings 8:56	&ldquo;Blessed be the Lord who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. Not one word has failed of all his good promise, which he spoke by Moses his servant.	faithfulness
0	1 Kings 8:57	The Lord our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. May he not leave us or forsake us,	family
0	1 Kings 8:66	On the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their homes joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the Lord had shown to David his servant and to Israel his people.	gratitude,joy
0	1 Kings 8:9	There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone that Moses put there at Horeb, where the Lord made a covenant with the people of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.	covenant
0	1 Kings 9:4-5	And as for you, if you will walk before me, as David your father walked, with integrity of heart and uprightness, doing according to all that I have commanded you, and keeping my statutes and my rules, then I will establish your royal throne over Israel forever, as I promised David your father, saying, &lsquo;You shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel.&rsquo;	honesty
0	1 Peter 1:11	Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.	spirit
0	1 Peter 1:12	It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look.	angels,serving
0	1 Peter 1:1-2:25	Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. ...	materialism
0	1 Peter 1:1-25	Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. ...	freedom,grace
0	1 Peter 1:13	Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.	hope,mind,second-coming,self-control,thoughts
0	1 Peter 1:13-16	Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo;	holiness
0	1 Peter 1:14	As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance,	obedience
0	1 Peter 1:14-16	As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo;	holiness
0	1 Peter 1:14-2:12	As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo; And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, ...	addiction
0	1 Peter 1:15	But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct,	holiness
0	1 Peter 1:15-16	But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo;	calling,holiness,purification
0	1 Peter 1:16	Since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo;	holiness
0	1 Peter 1:16-17	Since it is written, &ldquo;You shall be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo; And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile,	transformation
0	1 Peter 1:17	And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile,	judgment
0	1 Peter 1:18-19	Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.	blood
0	1 Peter 1:19	But with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.	blood
0	1 Peter 1:2	According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.	blood,comforter,peace,purification
0	1 Peter 1:21	Who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.	easter,hope,resurrection,trust
0	1 Peter 1:22	Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,	heart,love,neighbor,purification,truth
0	1 Peter 1:22-23	Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart, since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God;	truth
0	1 Peter 1:23	Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God;	fruitfulness,rebirth,the-word
0	1 Peter 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,	baptism,easter,hope,mercy,praise,rebirth,resurrection
0	1 Peter 1:3-2:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith&mdash;more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire&mdash;may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. ...	greed
0	1 Peter 1:3-5	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.	relationships
0	1 Peter 1:4	To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you,	heaven
0	1 Peter 1:6	In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials,	temptation
0	1 Peter 1:6-7	In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith&mdash;more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire&mdash;may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.	suffering
0	1 Peter 1:7	So that the tested genuineness of your faith&mdash;more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire&mdash;may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.	clothing,faith,purification,temptation
0	1 Peter 1:8	Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory,	joy
0	1 Peter 1:8-9	Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.	faith,joy,salvation
0	1 Peter 2:1	So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander.	gossip,speaking
0	1 Peter 2:10	Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.	mercy
0	1 Peter 2:11	Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul.	addiction,clothing
0	1 Peter 2:12	Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation.	honesty,speaking
0	1 Peter 2:1-25	So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation&mdash; if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious, you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. ...	goodness,holy-spirit,persecution,the-word
0	1 Peter 2:16	Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God.	dependence,freedom,slavery
0	1 Peter 2:17	Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor.	fear
0	1 Peter 2:17-25	Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor. Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. ...	debt
0	1 Peter 2:18	Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle but also to the unjust.	gentleness,slavery
0	1 Peter 2:19	For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly.	suffering
0	1 Peter 2:19-21	For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps.	suffering
0	1 Peter 2:19-23	For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly.	patience
0	1 Peter 2:2	Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation&mdash;	food,fruitfulness,rebirth,weakness,the-word
0	1 Peter 2:21	For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps.	calling,overcoming,suffering
0	1 Peter 2:21-24	For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed.	healing
0	1 Peter 2:23	When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly.	gentleness
0	1 Peter 2:2-3	Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation&mdash; if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.	children
0	1 Peter 2:24	He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed.	awe,blameless,blood,death,faithfulness,healing,health,holiness,jesus,promises,reconciliation,righteousness,salvation,sickness,sin
0	1 Peter 2:25	For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.	conversion
0	1 Peter 2:3	If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.	encouragement,goodness
0	1 Peter 2:4-10	As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious, you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture: &ldquo;Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.&rdquo; So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, &ldquo;The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone,&rdquo; and &ldquo;A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense.&rdquo; They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do. ...	sacrifice
0	1 Peter 2:4-5	As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious, you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.	sacrifice
0	1 Peter 2:5	You yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.	church,pentecost,purification,sacrifice,worship
0	1 Peter 2:9	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.	blameless,calling,church,clothing,holiness,light,mediator,praise,sacrifice,worship
0	1 Peter 2:9-10	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.	church,community,mediator
0	1 Peter 3:1	Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives,	blameless,family,redeemer
0	1 Peter 3:10	For &ldquo;Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit;	lying,peace,speaking
0	1 Peter 3:10-11	For &ldquo;Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit; let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.	peace
0	1 Peter 3:10-12	For &ldquo;Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit; let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.&rdquo;	honesty
0	1 Peter 3:11	Let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.	peace
0	1 Peter 3:12	For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.&rdquo;	listening,prayer,righteousness
0	1 Peter 3:1-22	Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external&mdash;the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear&mdash; but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their own husbands, ...	baptism
0	1 Peter 3:13	Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good?	goodness
0	1 Peter 3:14	But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled,	fear,persecution,righteousness,suffering,worrying
0	1 Peter 3:15	But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you; yet do it with gentleness and respect,	acknowledging,evangelism,faith,gentleness,heart,hope,jesus,learning,reliability,speaking
0	1 Peter 3:1-5	Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external&mdash;the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear&mdash; but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their own husbands,	clothing,marriage
0	1 Peter 3:16	Having a good conscience, so that, when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame.	gossip,honesty,persecution
0	1 Peter 3:17	For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil.	persecution,suffering
0	1 Peter 3:17-5:10	For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, ...	worrying
0	1 Peter 3:18	For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit,	blood,comforter,jesus,suffering
0	1 Peter 3:18-22	For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.	evangelism
0	1 Peter 3:20	Because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water.	baptism
0	1 Peter 3:20-21	Because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,	baptism
0	1 Peter 3:21	Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,	baptism,church,pentecost,purification,resurrection,salvation
0	1 Peter 3:22	Who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.	angels
0	1 Peter 3:2-5	When they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external&mdash;the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear&mdash; but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their own husbands,	clothing
0	1 Peter 3:3	Do not let your adorning be external&mdash;the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear&mdash;	clothing
0	1 Peter 3:3-4	Do not let your adorning be external&mdash;the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear&mdash; but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.	beauty,body,clothing,gentleness,humility
0	1 Peter 3:4	But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.	gentleness
0	1 Peter 3:6	As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening.	conversion
0	1 Peter 3:7	Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.	family,grace,marriage,mediator,relationships,understanding
0	1 Peter 3:8	Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind.	community,compassion,humility,neighbor
0	1 Peter 3:8-18	Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For &ldquo;Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit; let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.&rdquo; ...	evil
0	1 Peter 3:9	Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing.	anger,blessing,calling,evil,forgiveness,speaking
0	1 Peter 3:9-11	Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For &ldquo;Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit; let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.	peace
0	1 Peter 4:1	Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,	mind,persecution,suffering
0	1 Peter 4:10	As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace:	church,community,compassion,fruitfulness,grace,serving
0	1 Peter 4:10-11	As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace: whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies&mdash;in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.	serving
0	1 Peter 4:11	Whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies&mdash;in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.	serving,strength,weakness
0	1 Peter 4:12	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you.	persecution,temptation
0	1 Peter 4:1-2	Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God.	temptation
0	1 Peter 4:12-13	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed.	persecution,sadness,suffering
0	1 Peter 4:12-14	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.	persecution
0	1 Peter 4:12-16	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.	persecution,suffering
0	1 Peter 4:12-19	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. ...	suffering
0	1 Peter 4:13	But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed.	joy,second-coming,suffering
0	1 Peter 4:14	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.	persecution
0	1 Peter 4:15	But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler.	gossip
0	1 Peter 4:16	Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.	persecution,suffering
0	1 Peter 4:17	For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God?	judgment
0	1 Peter 4:19	Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.	persecution
0	1 Peter 4:3	For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry.	idols
0	1 Peter 4:4	With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you;	persecution
0	1 Peter 4:5	But they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.	judgment
0	1 Peter 4:7	The end of all things is at hand; therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers.	rest,self-control,temptation
0	1 Peter 4:8	Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.	clothing,family,forgiveness,love,marriage,neighbor,patience,planning,reconciliation,relationships,sin
0	1 Peter 4:8-10	Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace:	friendship
0	1 Peter 4:8-11	Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace: whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies&mdash;in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.	community
0	1 Peter 4:9	Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.	community
0	1 Peter 5:10	And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.	addiction,calling,dependence,grace,hope,mercy,righteousness,sadness,sickness,strength,suffering,weakness
0	1 Peter 5:1-14	So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed: shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly; not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for &ldquo;God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.&rdquo; ...	courage,sickness
0	1 Peter 5:13	She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son.	equipment
0	1 Peter 5:1-4	So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed: shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly; not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.	church
0	1 Peter 5:2	Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly;	church,community,money
0	1 Peter 5:2-3	Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly; not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock.	greed
0	1 Peter 5:4	And when the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.	reward
0	1 Peter 5:5	Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for &ldquo;God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.&rdquo;	children,clothing,grace,humility,learning,pride
0	1 Peter 5:5-6	Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for &ldquo;God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.&rdquo; Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you,	humility
0	1 Peter 5:6	Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you,	blessing,humility,reward
0	1 Peter 5:6-7	Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.	contentment,fear,god,love,peace,relationships,sadness,worrying
0	1 Peter 5:7	Casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.	anger,conversion,encouragement,faith,fear,life,mind,overcoming,peace,prayer,promises,rest,sadness,seeking,sickness,strength,suffering,thoughts,weakness,worrying
0	1 Peter 5:7-10	Casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.	debt
0	1 Peter 5:8	Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.	addiction,awe,comforter,dependence,devil,mind,overcoming,persecution,self-control,temptation
0	1 Peter 5:8-9	Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world.	devil
0	1 Samuel 1:11-5:4	And she vowed a vow and said, &ldquo;O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your servant and remember me and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a son, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall touch his head.&rdquo; As she continued praying before the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was speaking in her heart; only her lips moved, and her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli took her to be a drunken woman. And Eli said to her, &ldquo;How long will you go on being drunk? Put your wine away from you.&rdquo; But Hannah answered, &ldquo;No, my lord, I am a woman troubled in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have been pouring out my soul before the Lord. ...	family
0	1 Samuel 12:16	Now therefore stand still and see this great thing that the Lord will do before your eyes.	healing
0	1 Samuel 12:17	Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call upon the Lord, that he may send thunder and rain. And you shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the Lord, in asking for yourselves a king.&rdquo;	harvest
0	1 Samuel 12:20-22	And Samuel said to the people, &ldquo;Do not be afraid; you have done all this evil. Yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty. For the Lord will not forsake his people, for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you a people for himself.	serving
0	1 Samuel 12:23	Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you, and I will instruct you in the good and the right way.	prayer
0	1 Samuel 12:24	Only fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart. For consider what great things he has done for you.	serving
0	1 Samuel 15:22	And Samuel said, &ldquo;Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.	obedience,sacrifice
0	1 Samuel 15:22-23	And Samuel said, &ldquo;Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king.&rdquo;	obedience
0	1 Samuel 15:23	For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king.&rdquo;	blood,equipment,idols
0	1 Samuel 15:23-29	For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king.&rdquo; Saul said to Samuel, &ldquo;I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the Lord.&rdquo; And Samuel said to Saul, &ldquo;I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel.&rdquo; As Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the skirt of his robe, and it tore. ...	fear
0	1 Samuel 15:3	Now go and strike Amalek and devote to destruction all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.&rsquo;&rdquo;	following
0	1 Samuel 16:1-23	The Lord said to Samuel, &ldquo;How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons.&rdquo; And Samuel said, &ldquo;How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me.&rdquo; And the Lord said, &ldquo;Take a heifer with you and say, &lsquo;I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.&rsquo; And invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you.&rdquo; Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling and said, &ldquo;Do you come peaceably?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice.&rdquo; And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. ...	beauty
0	1 Samuel 16:18	One of the young men answered, &ldquo;Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing, a man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a man of good presence, and the Lord is with him.&rdquo;	beauty
0	1 Samuel 16:23	And whenever the harmful spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the lyre and played it with his hand. So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the harmful spirit departed from him.	singing
0	1 Samuel 16:7	But the Lord said to Samuel, &ldquo;Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart.&rdquo;	beauty,body,clothing,heart,pride
0	1 Samuel 18:1	As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.	friendship
0	1 Samuel 18:1-3	As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.	friendship
0	1 Samuel 18:1-30	As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword and his bow and his belt. And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him, so that Saul set him over the men of war. And this was good in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants. ...	family
0	1 Samuel 18:1-4	As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword and his bow and his belt.	friendship
0	1 Samuel 18:6	As they were coming home, when David returned from striking down the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with songs of joy, and with musical instruments.	joy,singing
0	1 Samuel 2:1-36	And Hannah prayed and said, &ldquo;My heart exults in the Lord; my strength is exalted in the Lord. My mouth derides my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation. &ldquo;There is none holy like the Lord; there is none besides you; there is no rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly, let not arrogance come from your mouth; for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger. The barren has borne seven, but she who has many children is forlorn. ...	worrying
0	1 Samuel 2:2	&ldquo;There is none holy like the Lord; there is none besides you; there is no rock like our God.	god,holiness,worship
0	1 Samuel 2:22-26	Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And he said to them, &ldquo;Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons; it is no good report that I hear the people of the Lord spreading abroad. If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the Lord, who can intercede for him?&rdquo; But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the Lord to put them to death. Now the young man Samuel continued to grow both in stature and in favor with the Lord and also with man.	father
0	1 Samuel 2:36	And everyone who is left in your house shall come to implore him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread and shall say, &ldquo;Please put me in one of the priests' places, that I may eat a morsel of bread.&rdquo;&rsquo;&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Samuel 2:7	The Lord makes poor and makes rich; he brings low and he exalts.	money
0	1 Samuel 2:7-8	The Lord makes poor and makes rich; he brings low and he exalts. He raises up the poor from the dust; he lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world.	contentment
0	1 Samuel 2:8	He raises up the poor from the dust; he lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world.	encouragement,poverty
0	1 Samuel 20:17	And Jonathan made David swear again by his love for him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.	friendship
0	1 Samuel 20:42	Then Jonathan said to David, &ldquo;Go in peace, because we have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord, saying, &lsquo;The Lord shall be between me and you, and between my offspring and your offspring, forever.&rsquo;&rdquo; And he rose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city.	friendship
0	1 Samuel 21:4	And the priest answered David, &ldquo;I have no common bread on hand, but there is holy bread&mdash;if the young men have kept themselves from women.&rdquo;	bread
0	1 Samuel 21:6	So the priest gave him the holy bread, for there was no bread there but the bread of the Presence, which is removed from before the Lord, to be replaced by hot bread on the day it is taken away.	bread
0	1 Samuel 22:1-23:29	David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him. And everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in soul, gathered to him. And he became captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men. And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, &ldquo;Please let my father and my mother stay with you, till I know what God will do for me.&rdquo; And he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the stronghold. Then the prophet Gad said to David, &ldquo;Do not remain in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah.&rdquo; So David departed and went into the forest of Hereth. ...	debt
0	1 Samuel 22:1-31:13	David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him. And everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in soul, gathered to him. And he became captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men. And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, &ldquo;Please let my father and my mother stay with you, till I know what God will do for me.&rdquo; And he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the stronghold. Then the prophet Gad said to David, &ldquo;Do not remain in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah.&rdquo; So David departed and went into the forest of Hereth. ...	the-word
0	1 Samuel 22:23	Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life. With me you shall be in safekeeping.&rdquo;	friendship
0	1 Samuel 24:1-7	When Saul returned from following the Philistines, he was told, &ldquo;Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.&rdquo; Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men in front of the Wildgoats' Rocks. And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave. And the men of David said to him, &ldquo;Here is the day of which the Lord said to you, &lsquo;Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you.&rsquo;&rdquo; Then David arose and stealthily cut off a corner of Saul's robe. And afterward David's heart struck him, because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe. ...	self-control
0	1 Samuel 25:1-44	Now Samuel died. And all Israel assembled and mourned for him, and they buried him in his house at Ramah. Then David rose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. And there was a man in Maon whose business was in Carmel. The man was very rich; he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. He was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. The woman was discerning and beautiful, but the man was harsh and badly behaved; he was a Calebite. David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. So David sent ten young men. And David said to the young men, &ldquo;Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal and greet him in my name. ...	beauty
0	1 Samuel 25:18	Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two skins of wine and five sheep already prepared and five seahs of parched grain and a hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.	bread
0	1 Samuel 25:36	And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he was holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. So she told him nothing at all until the morning light.	wine
0	1 Samuel 26:23	The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness, for the Lord gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the Lord's anointed.	fruitfulness
0	1 Samuel 26:25	Then Saul said to David, &ldquo;Blessed be you, my son David! You will do many things and will succeed in them.&rdquo; So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.	fruitfulness
0	1 Samuel 28:24	Now the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly killed it, and she took flour and kneaded it and baked unleavened bread of it,	bread
0	1 Samuel 3:10	And the Lord came and stood, calling as at other times, &ldquo;Samuel! Samuel!&rdquo; And Samuel said, &ldquo;Speak, for your servant hears.&rdquo;	listening
0	1 Samuel 30:6	And David was greatly distressed, for the people spoke of stoning him, because all the people were bitter in soul, each for his sons and daughters. But David strengthened himself in the Lord his God.	strength
0	1 Samuel 30:8	And David inquired of the Lord, &ldquo;Shall I pursue after this band? Shall I overtake them?&rdquo; He answered him, &ldquo;Pursue, for you shall surely overtake and shall surely rescue.&rdquo;	mediator
0	1 Samuel 31:13	And they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh and fasted seven days.	fasting
0	1 Samuel 31:4-5	Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, &ldquo;Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and mistreat me.&rdquo; But his armor-bearer would not, for he feared greatly. Therefore Saul took his own sword and fell upon it. And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died with him.	weakness
0	1 Samuel 6:13	Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. And when they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it.	harvest
0	1 Samuel 7:6	So they gathered at Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before the Lord and fasted on that day and said there, &ldquo;We have sinned against the Lord.&rdquo; And Samuel judged the people of Israel at Mizpah.	fasting
0	1 Samuel 8:12	And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and some to plow his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war and the equipment of his chariots.	harvest
0	1 Samuel 8:13	He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers.	bread
0	1 Thessalonians 1:2	We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers,	blameless,gratitude
0	1 Thessalonians 1:3	Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.	faith,hope,patience
0	1 Thessalonians 1:6	And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit,	holy-spirit,joy,spirit
0	1 Thessalonians 1:9	For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God,	conversion,idols,repentance
0	1 Thessalonians 2:13	And we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers.	listening,reliability,the-word
0	1 Thessalonians 2:18	Because we wanted to come to you&mdash;I, Paul, again and again&mdash;but Satan hindered us.	devil
0	1 Thessalonians 2:19-20	For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy.	judgment,reward
0	1 Thessalonians 2:20	For you are our glory and joy.	joy
0	1 Thessalonians 2:4	But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not to please man, but to please God who tests our hearts.	heart
0	1 Thessalonians 2:5	For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed&mdash;God is witness.	greed
0	1 Thessalonians 2:7	But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children.	gentleness
0	1 Thessalonians 3:12	And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you,	neighbor
0	1 Thessalonians 3:13	So that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.	holiness,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 3:5	For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith, for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.	temptation
0	1 Thessalonians 3:9	For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God,	joy
0	1 Thessalonians 4:11	And to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you,	gossip,honesty,work
0	1 Thessalonians 4:11-12	And to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.	work
0	1 Thessalonians 4:12	So that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.	work
0	1 Thessalonians 4:13	But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope.	death,hope,sadness
0	1 Thessalonians 4:13-14	But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.	death
0	1 Thessalonians 4:13-17	But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.	second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 4:13-18	But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. ...	death,heaven,reward,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 4:14	For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.	death,easter,resurrection
0	1 Thessalonians 4:15	For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.	death
0	1 Thessalonians 4:16	For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first.	angels,nearness,rebirth,resurrection,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 4:16-17	For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.	ascension,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 4:16-18	For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore encourage one another with these words.	confession,equipment
0	1 Thessalonians 4:17	Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.	rebirth,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 4:18	Therefore encourage one another with these words.	community
0	1 Thessalonians 4:3	For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality;	holiness,purification
0	1 Thessalonians 4:3-5	For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God;	desires
0	1 Thessalonians 4:4	That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor,	holiness
0	1 Thessalonians 4:7	For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness.	calling,holiness
0	1 Thessalonians 4:9-12	Now concerning brotherly love you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another, for that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more, and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.	dependence
0	1 Thessalonians 5:11	Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.	church,encouragement,friendship,learning,neighbor,relationships
0	1 Thessalonians 5:11-14	Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all.	compassion
0	1 Thessalonians 5:14	And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all.	community,patience,work
0	1 Thessalonians 5:15	See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone.	evil,peace
0	1 Thessalonians 5:16	Rejoice always,	joy
0	1 Thessalonians 5:16-18	Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.	gratitude,joy,prayer,rebirth,sadness
0	1 Thessalonians 5:17	Pray without ceasing,	prayer
0	1 Thessalonians 5:18	Give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.	gratitude
0	1 Thessalonians 5:19	Do not quench the Spirit.	listening,spirit
0	1 Thessalonians 5:2	For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.	second-coming,the-word
0	1 Thessalonians 5:21-22	But test everything; hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil.	evil,understanding
0	1 Thessalonians 5:21-24	But test everything; hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.	addiction
0	1 Thessalonians 5:22	Abstain from every form of evil.	body,evil,self-control
0	1 Thessalonians 5:23	Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.	body,holiness,peace,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 5:2-3	For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying, &ldquo;There is peace and security,&rdquo; then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.	second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 5:23-24	Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.	protection
0	1 Thessalonians 5:24	He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.	blessing,calling,the-word
0	1 Thessalonians 5:2-6	For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying, &ldquo;There is peace and security,&rdquo; then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober.	second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 5:3	While people are saying, &ldquo;There is peace and security,&rdquo; then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.	nearness,second-coming
0	1 Thessalonians 5:3-22	While people are saying, &ldquo;There is peace and security,&rdquo; then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night. ...	christmas
0	1 Thessalonians 5:5	For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness.	light
0	1 Thessalonians 5:6	So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober.	self-control
0	1 Thessalonians 5:6-8	So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.	self-control
0	1 Thessalonians 5:8	But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.	clothing,hope
0	1 Thessalonians 5:9	For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,	salvation
0	1 Thessalonians 5:9-11	For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.	encouragement
0	1 Timothy 1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,	hope
0	1 Timothy 1:10	The sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,	slavery
0	1 Timothy 1:12	I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service,	strength
0	1 Timothy 1:1-20	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope, To Timothy, my true child in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith. The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. ...	sin,spirit
0	1 Timothy 1:12-17	I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. ...	patience
0	1 Timothy 1:13	Though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief,	judgment
0	1 Timothy 1:15	The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost.	blameless,humility
0	1 Timothy 1:16	But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.	eternal-life,mercy,patience
0	1 Timothy 1:17	To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.	god
0	1 Timothy 1:19	Holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith,	faith
0	1 Timothy 1:2	To Timothy, my true child in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.	father
0	1 Timothy 1:20	Among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.	devil
0	1 Timothy 1:3	As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine,	blameless
0	1 Timothy 1:4-2:6	Nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith. The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions. Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully, ...	christmas
0	1 Timothy 1:5	The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith.	equipment,heart
0	1 Timothy 1:8-10	Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,	law
0	1 Timothy 1:8-11	Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted.	acknowledging
0	1 Timothy 1:9-10	Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,	slavery
0	1 Timothy 1:9-3:3	Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, ...	selfishness
0	1 Timothy 2:1	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people,	gratitude
0	1 Timothy 2:10	But with what is proper for women who profess godliness&mdash;with good works.	clothing
0	1 Timothy 2:11	Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness.	the-word
0	1 Timothy 2:11-15	Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first, then Eve; and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. Yet she will be saved through childbearing&mdash;if they continue in faith and love and holiness, with self-control.	self-control
0	1 Timothy 2:1-15	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, ...	eternal-life,fasting,holy-spirit,mediator,savior
0	1 Timothy 2:12	I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.	blameless,nearness
0	1 Timothy 2:1-2	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way.	peace,prayer
0	1 Timothy 2:1-4	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.	prayer
0	1 Timothy 2:1-6	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, ...	mediator
0	1 Timothy 2:3-4	This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.	savior
0	1 Timothy 2:4	Who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.	idols,seeking
0	1 Timothy 2:5	For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,	awe,blameless,comforter,jesus,mediator,nearness,prayer,sadness
0	1 Timothy 2:5-6	For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.	savior
0	1 Timothy 2:6	Who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.	mediator
0	1 Timothy 2:8	I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;	anger,prayer,worship
0	1 Timothy 2:9	Likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,	beauty,clothing,materialism,self-control,valuable
0	1 Timothy 2:9-10	Likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire, but with what is proper for women who profess godliness&mdash;with good works.	beauty,body,clothing,goodness
0	1 Timothy 3:11	Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things.	gossip
0	1 Timothy 3:1-16	The saying is trustworthy: If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive, for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? ...	materialism
0	1 Timothy 3:12	Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well.	family,marriage
0	1 Timothy 3:13	For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus.	serving
0	1 Timothy 3:1-3	The saying is trustworthy: If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money.	world
0	1 Timothy 3:14-15	I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that, if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth.	church
0	1 Timothy 3:15	If I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth.	church,truth
0	1 Timothy 3:16	Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness: He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.	the-word
0	1 Timothy 3:2	Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach,	marriage,self-control,the-word
0	1 Timothy 3:2-6:5	Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive, for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil. ...	greed
0	1 Timothy 3:3	Not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money.	gentleness
0	1 Timothy 3:4	He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive,	family
0	1 Timothy 3:4-7	He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive, for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the devil.	relationships
0	1 Timothy 3:5	For if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church?	family
0	1 Timothy 3:6	He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil.	devil,pride
0	1 Timothy 3:7	Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the devil.	devil
0	1 Timothy 3:8	Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain.	wine
0	1 Timothy 3:9-11	They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless. Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things.	gossip
0	1 Timothy 4:1	Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,	holy-spirit,rebirth,spirit
0	1 Timothy 4:10	For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe.	jesus,redeemer
0	1 Timothy 4:12	Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.	children,conversion,encouragement,learning
0	1 Timothy 4:14	Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you.	holy-spirit,miracles
0	1 Timothy 4:16	Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers.	salvation
0	1 Timothy 4:2	Through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,	lying,punishment
0	1 Timothy 4:4	For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,	creation,food,goodness
0	1 Timothy 4:4-5	For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.	food,gratitude
0	1 Timothy 4:7	Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness;	planning,self-control
0	1 Timothy 4:7-8	Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.	health
0	1 Timothy 4:7-9	Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance.	body
0	1 Timothy 4:8	For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.	beauty,body,eternal-life,health,life
0	1 Timothy 5:1-25	Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity. Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, ...	family
0	1 Timothy 5:13	Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not.	gossip
0	1 Timothy 5:13-14	Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander.	gossip
0	1 Timothy 5:14	So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander.	marriage
0	1 Timothy 5:15	For some have already strayed after Satan.	devil
0	1 Timothy 5:16	If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are truly widows.	widows
0	1 Timothy 5:17	Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching.	church
0	1 Timothy 5:18	For the Scripture says, &ldquo;You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain,&rdquo; and, &ldquo;The laborer deserves his wages.&rdquo;	money,poverty
0	1 Timothy 5:19	Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.	gossip
0	1 Timothy 5:21	In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality.	angels,blameless
0	1 Timothy 5:23	(No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.)	sickness,wine
0	1 Timothy 5:3	Honor widows who are truly widows.	community
0	1 Timothy 5:3-4	Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.	orphans
0	1 Timothy 5:3-6	Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, but she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives.	widows
0	1 Timothy 5:4	But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.	learning,orphans
0	1 Timothy 5:8	But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.	children,debt,dependence,equipment,faithfulness,family,generosity,materialism,money,neighbor,pentecost,protection,relationships,reward,widows,work
0	1 Timothy 5:9-12	Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband, and having a reputation for good works: if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work. But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith.	widows
0	1 Timothy 6:1	Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled.	slavery
0	1 Timothy 6:10	For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.	debt,evil,giving,greed,money,temptation
0	1 Timothy 6:10-11	For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.	contentment,gentleness
0	1 Timothy 6:11	But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.	faith,gentleness,holiness,patience,righteousness
0	1 Timothy 6:12	Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.	eternal-life,faith,life,overcoming
0	1 Timothy 6:1-2	Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Teach and urge these things.	slavery
0	1 Timothy 6:1-21	Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. ...	christmas,materialism
0	1 Timothy 6:14-16	To keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which he will display at the proper time&mdash;he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.	kingdom
0	1 Timothy 6:15	Which he will display at the proper time&mdash;he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords,	awe
0	1 Timothy 6:15-16	Which he will display at the proper time&mdash;he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.	blameless
0	1 Timothy 6:16	Who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.	ascension,light,mediator,nearness
0	1 Timothy 6:17	As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy.	generosity,giving,grace,hope,joy,money,pride
0	1 Timothy 6:17-19	As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life.	contentment,debt,generosity,giving,greed,heaven,life,materialism,money,poverty,reward,selfishness,serving
0	1 Timothy 6:18-19	They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life.	generosity
0	1 Timothy 6:19	Thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life.	eternal-life
0	1 Timothy 6:2	Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Teach and urge these things.	overcoming
0	1 Timothy 6:6	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment,	contentment
0	1 Timothy 6:6-10	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.	greed,materialism
0	1 Timothy 6:6-11	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. ...	contentment
0	1 Timothy 6:6-12	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. ...	money
0	1 Timothy 6:6-8	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.	contentment,debt
0	1 Timothy 6:7	For we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world.	death
0	1 Timothy 6:7-8	For we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.	clothing,food
0	1 Timothy 6:8	But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.	contentment
0	1 Timothy 6:9	But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.	generosity,giving,greed,money,temptation
0	1 Timothy 6:9-10	But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.	materialism
0	2 Chronicles 1:7-12	In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, &ldquo;Ask what I shall give you.&rdquo; And Solomon said to God, &ldquo;You have shown great and steadfast love to David my father, and have made me king in his place. O Lord God, let your word to David my father be now fulfilled, for you have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth. Give me now wisdom and knowledge to go out and come in before this people, for who can govern this people of yours, which is so great?&rdquo; God answered Solomon, &ldquo;Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked possessions, wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, and have not even asked long life, but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself that you may govern my people over whom I have made you king, ...	wisdom
0	2 Chronicles 15:12-15	And they entered into a covenant to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul, but that whoever would not seek the Lord, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether young or old, man or woman. They swore an oath to the Lord with a loud voice and with shouting and with trumpets and with horns. And all Judah rejoiced over the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and had sought him with their whole desire, and he was found by them, and the Lord gave them rest all around.	seeking
0	2 Chronicles 15:2	And he went out to meet Asa and said to him, &ldquo;Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: The Lord is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.	seeking
0	2 Chronicles 15:7	But you, take courage! Do not let your hands be weak, for your work shall be rewarded.&rdquo;	patience
0	2 Chronicles 16:9	For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to give strong support to those whose heart is blameless toward him. You have done foolishly in this, for from now on you will have wars.&rdquo;	strength
0	2 Chronicles 17:10	And the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat.	faithfulness,safety
0	2 Chronicles 17:1-19	Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel. He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had captured. The Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the earlier ways of his father David. He did not seek the Baals, but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the practices of Israel. Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand. And all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor. ...	faithfulness
0	2 Chronicles 18:19-22	And the Lord said, &lsquo;Who will entice Ahab the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?&rsquo; And one said one thing, and another said another. Then a spirit came forward and stood before the Lord, saying, &lsquo;I will entice him.&rsquo; And the Lord said to him, &lsquo;By what means?&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.&rsquo; Now therefore behold, the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets. The Lord has declared disaster concerning you.&rdquo;	lying
0	2 Chronicles 18:20-22	Then a spirit came forward and stood before the Lord, saying, &lsquo;I will entice him.&rsquo; And the Lord said to him, &lsquo;By what means?&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.&rsquo; Now therefore behold, the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets. The Lord has declared disaster concerning you.&rdquo;	lying
0	2 Chronicles 19:7	Now then, let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be careful what you do, for there is no injustice with the Lord our God, or partiality or taking bribes.&rdquo;	almighty
0	2 Chronicles 2:8-9	Send me also cedar, cypress, and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber in Lebanon. And my servants will be with your servants, to prepare timber for me in abundance, for the house I am to build will be great and wonderful.	beauty
0	2 Chronicles 20:12-17	O our God, will you not execute judgment on them? For we are powerless against this great horde that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you.&rdquo; Meanwhile all Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel, son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly. And he said, &ldquo;Listen, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: Thus says the Lord to you, &lsquo;Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed at this great horde, for the battle is not yours but God's. Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz. You will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruel. ...	courage
0	2 Chronicles 20:12-22	O our God, will you not execute judgment on them? For we are powerless against this great horde that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you.&rdquo; Meanwhile all Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel, son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly. And he said, &ldquo;Listen, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: Thus says the Lord to you, &lsquo;Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed at this great horde, for the battle is not yours but God's. Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz. You will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruel. ...	worrying
0	2 Chronicles 20:3	Then Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.	fasting
0	2 Chronicles 24:1-3	Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba. And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest. Jehoiada got for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters.	marriage
0	2 Chronicles 24:2-3	And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest. Jehoiada got for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters.	marriage
0	2 Chronicles 25:5-6	Then Amaziah assembled the men of Judah and set them by fathers' houses under commanders of thousands and of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He mustered those twenty years old and upward, and found that they were 300,000 choice men, fit for war, able to handle spear and shield. He hired also 100,000 mighty men of valor from Israel for 100 talents of silver.	mediator
0	2 Chronicles 26:16	But when he was strong, he grew proud, to his destruction. For he was unfaithful to the Lord his God and entered the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense.	pride
0	2 Chronicles 27:6	So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before the Lord his God.	blessing
0	2 Chronicles 3:7-14	So he lined the house with gold&mdash;its beams, its thresholds, its walls, and its doors&mdash;and he carved cherubim on the walls. And he made the Most Holy Place. Its length, corresponding to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and its breadth was twenty cubits. He overlaid it with 600 talents of fine gold. The weight of gold for the nails was fifty shekels. And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold. In the Most Holy Place he made two cherubim of wood and overlaid them with gold. The wings of the cherubim together extended twenty cubits: one wing of the one, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and its other wing, of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub; ...	angels
0	2 Chronicles 30:1-27	Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the Lord at Jerusalem to keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel. For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had taken counsel to keep the Passover in the second month&mdash; for they could not keep it at that time because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient number, nor had the people assembled in Jerusalem&mdash; and the plan seemed right to the king and all the assembly. So they decreed to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, that the people should come and keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem, for they had not kept it as often as prescribed. ...	easter
0	2 Chronicles 30:18-20	For a majority of the people, many of them from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than as prescribed. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, &ldquo;May the good Lord pardon everyone who sets his heart to seek God, the Lord, the God of his fathers, even though not according to the sanctuary's rules of cleanness.&rdquo; And the Lord heard Hezekiah and healed the people.	seeking
0	2 Chronicles 30:9	For if you return to the Lord, your brothers and your children will find compassion with their captors and return to this land. For the Lord your God is gracious and merciful and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.&rdquo;	forgiveness,mercy,repentance
0	2 Chronicles 31:10	Azariah the chief priest, who was of the house of Zadok, answered him, &ldquo;Since they began to bring the contributions into the house of the Lord, we have eaten and had enough and have plenty left, for the Lord has blessed his people, so that we have this large amount left.&rdquo;	blessing
0	2 Chronicles 31:20	Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah, and he did what was good and right and faithful before the Lord his God.	debt
0	2 Chronicles 31:21	And every work that he undertook in the service of the house of God and in accordance with the law and the commandments, seeking his God, he did with all his heart, and prospered.	obedience
0	2 Chronicles 31:4-5	And he commanded the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the Levites, that they might give themselves to the Law of the Lord. As soon as the command was spread abroad, the people of Israel gave in abundance the firstfruits of grain, wine, oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field. And they brought in abundantly the tithe of everything.	giving
0	2 Chronicles 32:25	But Hezekiah did not make return according to the benefit done to him, for his heart was proud. Therefore wrath came upon him and Judah and Jerusalem.	poverty,selfishness
0	2 Chronicles 32:25-26	But Hezekiah did not make return according to the benefit done to him, for his heart was proud. Therefore wrath came upon him and Judah and Jerusalem. But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the Lord did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.	pride
0	2 Chronicles 32:31	And so in the matter of the envoys of the princes of Babylon, who had been sent to him to inquire about the sign that had been done in the land, God left him to himself, in order to test him and to know all that was in his heart.	temptation
0	2 Chronicles 32:7	&ldquo;Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or dismayed before the king of Assyria and all the horde that is with him, for there are more with us than with him.	courage
0	2 Chronicles 32:7-24	&ldquo;Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or dismayed before the king of Assyria and all the horde that is with him, for there are more with us than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God, to help us and to fight our battles.&rdquo; And the people took confidence from the words of Hezekiah king of Judah. After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria, who was besieging Lachish with all his forces, sent his servants to Jerusalem to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all the people of Judah who were in Jerusalem, saying, &ldquo;Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria, &lsquo;On what are you trusting, that you endure the siege in Jerusalem? Is not Hezekiah misleading you, that he may give you over to die by famine and by thirst, when he tells you, &ldquo;The Lord our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria&rdquo;? ...	courage
0	2 Chronicles 32:8	With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God, to help us and to fight our battles.&rdquo; And the people took confidence from the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.	courage
0	2 Chronicles 34:1-3	Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father; and he did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of David his father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, and the carved and the metal images.	children
0	2 Chronicles 34:27	Because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and its inhabitants, and you have humbled yourself before me and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the Lord.	humility
0	2 Chronicles 5:14	So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God.	worship
0	2 Chronicles 6:30	Then hear from heaven your dwelling place and forgive and render to each whose heart you know, according to all his ways, for you, you only, know the hearts of the children of mankind,	heaven
0	2 Chronicles 7:1-22	As soon as Solomon finished his prayer, fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the Lord filled the temple. And the priests could not enter the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord filled the Lord's house. When all the people of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the Lord on the temple, they bowed down with their faces to the ground on the pavement and worshiped and gave thanks to the Lord, saying, &ldquo;For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before the Lord. King Solomon offered as a sacrifice 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God. ...	poverty
0	2 Chronicles 7:14	If my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.	blood,conversion,fasting,forgiveness,healing,humility,prayer,promises,repentance,seeking
0	2 Chronicles 7:3	When all the people of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the Lord on the temple, they bowed down with their faces to the ground on the pavement and worshiped and gave thanks to the Lord, saying, &ldquo;For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo;	worship
0	2 Chronicles 8:1-18	At the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the house of the Lord and his own house, Solomon rebuilt the cities that Hiram had given to him, and settled the people of Israel in them. And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and took it. He built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the store cities that he built in Hamath. He also built Upper Beth-horon and Lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars, ...	beauty
0	2 Corinthians 1:12	For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience, that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.	wisdom
0	2 Corinthians 1:1-24	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the church of God that is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too. ...	compassion,grace
0	2 Corinthians 1:20	For all the promises of God find their Yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory.	promises
0	2 Corinthians 1:22	And who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.	holy-spirit
0	2 Corinthians 1:24	Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith.	joy
0	2 Corinthians 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,	comforter,healing
0	2 Corinthians 1:3-4	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.	compassion,encouragement,sadness,suffering,worship
0	2 Corinthians 1:3-5	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.	suffering
0	2 Corinthians 1:5	For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.	suffering
0	2 Corinthians 1:8-12	For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead. He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again. You also must help us by prayer, so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many. For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience, that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.	sickness
0	2 Corinthians 1:8-9	For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead.	dependence
0	2 Corinthians 10:1	I, Paul, myself entreat you, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ&mdash;I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away!&mdash;	gentleness,humility
0	2 Corinthians 10:12	Not that we dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who are commending themselves. But when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another, they are without understanding.	pride
0	2 Corinthians 10:17-18	&ldquo;Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.&rdquo; For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.	pride
0	2 Corinthians 10:18	For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.	pride
0	2 Corinthians 10:3-5	For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ,	devil,mind,thoughts
0	2 Corinthians 10:3-6	For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete.	thoughts,weakness
0	2 Corinthians 10:4-5	For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ,	self-control
0	2 Corinthians 10:4-7	For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete. Look at what is before your eyes. If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him remind himself that just as he is Christ's, so also are we.	world
0	2 Corinthians 10:5	We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ,	blameless,mind,obedience,temptation,thoughts
0	2 Corinthians 11:14	And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.	addiction,angels,devil,second-coming,temptation,understanding
0	2 Corinthians 11:15-12:10	So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end will correspond to their deeds. I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little. What I am saying with this boastful confidence, I say not with the Lord's authority but as a fool. Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves! ...	worrying
0	2 Corinthians 11:27	In toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure.	fasting
0	2 Corinthians 11:3	But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.	blameless,devil
0	2 Corinthians 11:30	If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness.	humility
0	2 Corinthians 11:31	The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.	comforter
0	2 Corinthians 12:10	For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.	contentment,dependence,joy,persecution,strength,weakness
0	2 Corinthians 12:12	The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works.	miracles,patience
0	2 Corinthians 12:1-21	I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven&mdash;whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise&mdash;whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows&mdash; and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses. ...	weakness
0	2 Corinthians 12:2	I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven&mdash;whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows.	heaven
0	2 Corinthians 12:20	For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish&mdash;that perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder.	anger,gossip
0	2 Corinthians 12:20-21	For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish&mdash;that perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder. I fear that when I come again my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality that they have practiced.	sin
0	2 Corinthians 12:5	On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses.	weakness
0	2 Corinthians 12:7	So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited.	pride,suffering
0	2 Corinthians 12:7-10	So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, &ldquo;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&rdquo; Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.	dependence
0	2 Corinthians 12:8-9	Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, &ldquo;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&rdquo; Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.	grace
0	2 Corinthians 12:9	But he said to me, &ldquo;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&rdquo; Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.	encouragement,grace,healing,jesus,learning,life,overcoming,strength,weakness
0	2 Corinthians 12:9-10	But he said to me, &ldquo;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&rdquo; Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.	dependence,desires,fear,strength,suffering,weakness
0	2 Corinthians 13:11	Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration, comfort one another, agree with one another, live in peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.	christmas,peace
0	2 Corinthians 13:14	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.	holy-spirit,spirit
0	2 Corinthians 13:5	Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you?&mdash;unless indeed you fail to meet the test!	fruitfulness
0	2 Corinthians 13:9	For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. Your restoration is what we pray for.	sickness
0	2 Corinthians 2:10-11	Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ, so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.	devil
0	2 Corinthians 2:11	So that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.	devil,equipment,temptation
0	2 Corinthians 2:13-14	My spirit was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia. But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.	rest
0	2 Corinthians 2:14	But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.	evangelism,gratitude,overcoming
0	2 Corinthians 2:17	For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.	selfishness
0	2 Corinthians 2:5-11	Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure&mdash;not to put it too severely&mdash;to all of you. For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough, so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him. For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything. ...	forgiveness
0	2 Corinthians 2:5-8	Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure&mdash;not to put it too severely&mdash;to all of you. For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough, so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.	forgiveness
0	2 Corinthians 2:7-11	So you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him. For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything. Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ, so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 3:1-18	Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, as some do, letters of recommendation to you, or from you? You yourselves are our letter of recommendation, written on our hearts, to be known and read by all. And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts. Such is the confidence that we have through Christ toward God. Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us, but our sufficiency is from God, ...	covenant,freedom
0	2 Corinthians 3:12	Since we have such a hope, we are very bold,	hope
0	2 Corinthians 3:17	Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.	comforter,freedom,holy-spirit
0	2 Corinthians 3:18	And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.	beauty,spirit,transformation
0	2 Corinthians 3:3	And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.	holy-spirit
0	2 Corinthians 3:6	Who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.	blood,comforter,covenant
0	2 Corinthians 3:7	Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end,	covenant
0	2 Corinthians 4:1	Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart.	mercy
0	2 Corinthians 4:11	For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.	resurrection
0	2 Corinthians 4:1-2	Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God.	honesty
0	2 Corinthians 4:14	Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence.	resurrection
0	2 Corinthians 4:15-16	For it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people it may increase thanksgiving, to the glory of God. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day.	gratitude
0	2 Corinthians 4:16	So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day.	beauty,encouragement,life
0	2 Corinthians 4:16-17	So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison,	suffering
0	2 Corinthians 4:16-18	So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.	addiction,encouragement,healing,hope,life,spirit,strength,suffering,thoughts,transformation
0	2 Corinthians 4:17	For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison,	encouragement,sickness,suffering
0	2 Corinthians 4:17-18	For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.	death,hope
0	2 Corinthians 4:18	As we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.	creation,materialism
0	2 Corinthians 4:2	But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God.	honesty,truth
0	2 Corinthians 4:4	In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.	awe,blameless,devil,light,purification,thoughts,truth,world
0	2 Corinthians 4:4-11	In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, &ldquo;Let light shine out of darkness,&rdquo; has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; ...	christmas
0	2 Corinthians 4:4-6	In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, &ldquo;Let light shine out of darkness,&rdquo; has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.	light
0	2 Corinthians 4:5	For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake.	serving
0	2 Corinthians 4:6	For God, who said, &ldquo;Let light shine out of darkness,&rdquo; has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.	light
0	2 Corinthians 4:7	But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us.	weakness
0	2 Corinthians 4:8-10	We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.	suffering
0	2 Corinthians 4:8-11	We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.	persecution
0	2 Corinthians 4:8-12	We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you.	persecution
0	2 Corinthians 4:8-9	We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;	protection
0	2 Corinthians 5:1	For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.	eternal-life,heaven
0	2 Corinthians 5:10	For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.	body,judgment,mediator,punishment,reward,second-coming
0	2 Corinthians 5:1-15	For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked. For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened&mdash;not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. ...	encouragement
0	2 Corinthians 5:12	We are not commending ourselves to you again but giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.	pride
0	2 Corinthians 5:1-21	For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked. For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened&mdash;not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. ...	materialism,poverty
0	2 Corinthians 5:14	For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;	love
0	2 Corinthians 5:14-15	For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died; and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.	reconciliation,resurrection
0	2 Corinthians 5:15	And he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.	selfishness
0	2 Corinthians 5:16	From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:17	Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.	addiction,awe,blameless,body,conversion,covenant,creation,dependence,desires,easter,encouragement,forgiveness,fruitfulness,hope,kingdom,life,mind,overcoming,promises,purification,rebirth,reconciliation,repentance,rest,righteousness,sacrifice,salvation,sin,thoughts,transformation
0	2 Corinthians 5:17-18	Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;	grace,reconciliation,relationships
0	2 Corinthians 5:17-21	Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.	evangelism
0	2 Corinthians 5:18	All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:18-19	All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:18-21	All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:19	That is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.	reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:20	Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.	evangelism,reconciliation
0	2 Corinthians 5:21	For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.	god,goodness,holiness,jesus,messiah,punishment,purification,reconciliation,righteousness,salvation,sin,valuable
0	2 Corinthians 5:5	He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee.	blessing,holy-spirit
0	2 Corinthians 5:6-7	So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight.	faith
0	2 Corinthians 5:6-8	So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.	death
0	2 Corinthians 5:7	For we walk by faith, not by sight.	faith,faithfulness,healing,life,soul,trust
0	2 Corinthians 5:8	Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.	courage,death,eternal-life,heaven,rebirth
0	2 Corinthians 6:10	As sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything.	joy
0	2 Corinthians 6:14	Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?	almighty,friendship,law,light,marriage,relationships,righteousness
0	2 Corinthians 6:14-15	Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?	relationships
0	2 Corinthians 6:14-18	Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, &ldquo;I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.&rdquo;	marriage
0	2 Corinthians 6:16	What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, &ldquo;I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.	idols
0	2 Corinthians 6:18	And I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.&rdquo;	family
0	2 Corinthians 6:2	For he says, &ldquo;In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you.&rdquo; Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.	salvation,seeking
0	2 Corinthians 7:1	Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God.	almighty,blameless,health,holiness,promises,purification
0	2 Corinthians 7:10	For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death.	punishment,repentance,sadness
0	2 Corinthians 7:1-16	Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one. I do not say this to condemn you, for I said before that you are in our hearts, to die together and to live together. I am acting with great boldness toward you; I have great pride in you; I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy. For even when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were afflicted at every turn&mdash;fighting without and fear within. ...	addiction
0	2 Corinthians 7:2	Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.	honesty
0	2 Corinthians 7:4	I am acting with great boldness toward you; I have great pride in you; I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy.	joy
0	2 Corinthians 7:9	As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us.	repentance
0	2 Corinthians 7:9-10	As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death.	repentance
0	2 Corinthians 8:11	So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have.	work
0	2 Corinthians 8:12	For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have.	generosity,giving
0	2 Corinthians 8:1-2	We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part.	joy
0	2 Corinthians 8:12-15	For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. For I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness. As it is written, &ldquo;Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack.&rdquo;	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 8:1-24	We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints&mdash; and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us. ...	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 8:14	Your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness.	giving
0	2 Corinthians 8:1-5	We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints&mdash; and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us.	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 8:1-9:15	We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints&mdash; and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us. ...	christmas,dependence,giving,gratitude
0	2 Corinthians 8:2	For in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part.	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 8:21	For we aim at what is honorable not only in the Lord's sight but also in the sight of man.	honesty
0	2 Corinthians 8:2-3	For in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord,	generosity,giving
0	2 Corinthians 8:5	And this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us.	giving
0	2 Corinthians 8:7	But as you excel in everything&mdash;in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for you&mdash;see that you excel in this act of grace also.	generosity,gentleness,giving,grace
0	2 Corinthians 8:9	For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich.	generosity,giving,grace,poverty,selfishness
0	2 Corinthians 9:10	He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness.	bread,food,generosity,giving,goodness,harvest
0	2 Corinthians 9:11	You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God.	generosity,giving,gratitude
0	2 Corinthians 9:11-12	You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.	gratitude
0	2 Corinthians 9:1-15	Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter, so that you may be ready, as I said you would be. Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated&mdash;to say nothing of you&mdash;for being so confident. So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction. ...	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 9:12	For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.	giving
0	2 Corinthians 9:13	By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others,	generosity,giving
0	2 Corinthians 9:15	Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!	gratitude
0	2 Corinthians 9:5	So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction.	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 9:5-7	So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction. The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.	generosity
0	2 Corinthians 9:6	The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.	generosity,giving,harvest
0	2 Corinthians 9:6-7	The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.	giving
0	2 Corinthians 9:6-8	The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.	generosity,giving
0	2 Corinthians 9:7	Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.	generosity,giving,greed,heart,money
0	2 Corinthians 9:8	And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.	blessing,contentment,debt,generosity,giving,goodness,grace,money,worrying
0	2 Corinthians 9:8-10	And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. As it is written, &ldquo;He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever.&rdquo; He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness.	blessing
0	2 John 1:12	Though I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead I hope to come to you and talk face to face, so that our joy may be complete.	joy
0	2 John 1:2	Because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:	truth
0	2 John 1:3-4	Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love. I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father.	truth
0	2 John 1:6	And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.	obedience
0	2 John 1:6-9	And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.	obedience
0	2 John 1:8	Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.	reward,self-control
0	2 John 1:9	Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.	learning
0	2 Kings 1:1-18	After the death of Ahab, Moab rebelled against Israel. Now Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria, and lay sick; so he sent messengers, telling them, &ldquo;Go, inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover from this sickness.&rdquo; But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, &ldquo;Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say to them, &lsquo;Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Now therefore thus says the Lord, You shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.&rsquo;&rdquo; So Elijah went. The messengers returned to the king, and he said to them, &ldquo;Why have you returned?&rdquo; ...	ascension
0	2 Kings 1:8-2:9	They answered him, &ldquo;He wore a garment of hair, with a belt of leather about his waist.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;It is Elijah the Tishbite.&rdquo; Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty men with his fifty. He went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of a hill, and said to him, &ldquo;O man of God, the king says, &lsquo;Come down.&rsquo;&rdquo; But Elijah answered the captain of fifty, &ldquo;If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.&rdquo; Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. Again the king sent to him another captain of fifty men with his fifty. And he answered and said to him, &ldquo;O man of God, this is the king's order, &lsquo;Come down quickly!&rsquo;&rdquo; But Elijah answered them, &ldquo;If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.&rdquo; Then the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. ...	materialism
0	2 Kings 12:15	And they did not ask an accounting from the men into whose hand they delivered the money to pay out to the workmen, for they dealt honestly.	honesty
0	2 Kings 17:18	Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel and removed them out of his sight. None was left but the tribe of Judah only.	anger
0	2 Kings 18:4	He removed the high places and broke the pillars and cut down the Asherah. And he broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until those days the people of Israel had made offerings to it (it was called Nehushtan).	idols
0	2 Kings 18:6	For he held fast to the Lord. He did not depart from following him, but kept the commandments that the Lord commanded Moses.	obedience
0	2 Kings 19:1-37	As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord. And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz. They said to him, &ldquo;Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth. It may be that the Lord your God heard all the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the Lord your God has heard; therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.&rdquo; When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, ...	idols
0	2 Kings 19:18	And have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.	idols
0	2 Kings 19:22	&ldquo;Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes to the heights? Against the Holy One of Israel!	pride
0	2 Kings 19:35	And that night the angel of the Lord went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.	angels
0	2 Kings 2:11	And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.	heaven
0	2 Kings 2:2	And Elijah said to Elisha, &ldquo;Please stay here, for the Lord has sent me as far as Bethel.&rdquo; But Elisha said, &ldquo;As the Lord lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.&rdquo; So they went down to Bethel.	friendship
0	2 Kings 20:1-21	In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, &lsquo;Set your house in order, for you shall die; you shall not recover.&rsquo;&rdquo; Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, saying, &ldquo;Now, O Lord, please remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight.&rdquo; And Hezekiah wept bitterly. And before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him: &ldquo;Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the leader of my people, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord, ...	sickness
0	2 Kings 20:5	&ldquo;Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the leader of my people, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord,	healing,sickness
0	2 Kings 22:1-20	Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and walked in all the way of David his father, and he did not turn aside to the right or to the left. In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, son of Meshullam, the secretary, to the house of the Lord, saying, &ldquo;Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may count the money that has been brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people. And let it be given into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord, and let them give it to the workmen who are at the house of the Lord, repairing the house ...	work
0	2 Kings 24:8	Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.	almighty
0	2 Kings 4:13	And he said to him, &ldquo;Say now to her, &lsquo;See, you have taken all this trouble for us; what is to be done for you? Would you have a word spoken on your behalf to the king or to the commander of the army?&rsquo;&rdquo; She answered, &ldquo;I dwell among my own people.&rdquo;	contentment
0	2 Kings 4:1-44	Now the wife of one of the sons of the prophets cried to Elisha, &ldquo;Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared the Lord, but the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves.&rdquo; And Elisha said to her, &ldquo;What shall I do for you? Tell me; what have you in the house?&rdquo; And she said, &ldquo;Your servant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil.&rdquo; Then he said, &ldquo;Go outside, borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels and not too few. Then go in and shut the door behind yourself and your sons and pour into all these vessels. And when one is full, set it aside.&rdquo; So she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured they brought the vessels to her. ...	food
0	2 Kings 4:1-7	Now the wife of one of the sons of the prophets cried to Elisha, &ldquo;Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared the Lord, but the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves.&rdquo; And Elisha said to her, &ldquo;What shall I do for you? Tell me; what have you in the house?&rdquo; And she said, &ldquo;Your servant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil.&rdquo; Then he said, &ldquo;Go outside, borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels and not too few. Then go in and shut the door behind yourself and your sons and pour into all these vessels. And when one is full, set it aside.&rdquo; So she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured they brought the vessels to her. ...	widows
0	2 Kings 4:7	She came and told the man of God, and he said, &ldquo;Go, sell the oil and pay your debts, and you and your sons can live on the rest.&rdquo;	debt
0	2 Kings 5:1-9	Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and in high favor, because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper. Now the Syrians on one of their raids had carried off a little girl from the land of Israel, and she worked in the service of Naaman's wife. She said to her mistress, &ldquo;Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria! He would cure him of his leprosy.&rdquo; So Naaman went in and told his lord, &ldquo;Thus and so spoke the girl from the land of Israel.&rdquo; And the king of Syria said, &ldquo;Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel.&rdquo; So he went, taking with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothing. ...	dependence
0	2 Kings 6:17	Then Elisha prayed and said, &ldquo;O Lord, please open his eyes that he may see.&rdquo; So the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.	angels
0	2 Kings 7:1-15	But Elisha said, &ldquo;Hear the word of the Lord: thus says the Lord, Tomorrow about this time a seah of fine flour shall be sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria.&rdquo; Then the captain on whose hand the king leaned said to the man of God, &ldquo;If the Lord himself should make windows in heaven, could this thing be?&rdquo; But he said, &ldquo;You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it.&rdquo; Now there were four men who were lepers at the entrance to the gate. And they said to one another, &ldquo;Why are we sitting here until we die? If we say, &lsquo;Let us enter the city,&rsquo; the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. And if we sit here, we die also. So now come, let us go over to the camp of the Syrians. If they spare our lives we shall live, and if they kill us we shall but die.&rdquo; So they arose at twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. But when they came to the edge of the camp of the Syrians, behold, there was no one there. ...	harvest
0	2 Kings 8:26	Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Athaliah; she was a granddaughter of Omri king of Israel.	almighty
0	2 Peter 1:1	Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:	redeemer,righteousness
0	2 Peter 1:10	Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.	calling
0	2 Peter 1:10-11	Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.	calling
0	2 Peter 1:10-13	Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Therefore I intend always to remind you of these qualities, though you know them and are established in the truth that you have. I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir you up by way of reminder,	kingdom
0	2 Peter 1:1-21	Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, ...	goodness
0	2 Peter 1:16	For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.	reliability
0	2 Peter 1:19	And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts,	light,prophecy
0	2 Peter 1:2	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.	grace
0	2 Peter 1:20	Knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation.	blameless,rebirth
0	2 Peter 1:20-21	Knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.	fruitfulness,reliability
0	2 Peter 1:21	For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.	comforter,dependence,holy-spirit,pentecost,prophecy,rebirth
0	2 Peter 1:2-12	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, ...	righteousness
0	2 Peter 1:2-4	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.	blessing
0	2 Peter 1:3	His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence,	calling,goodness,life
0	2 Peter 1:3-11	His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. ...	transformation
0	2 Peter 1:3-4	His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.	promises
0	2 Peter 1:4	By which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.	promises
0	2 Peter 1:4-21	By which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. ...	greed
0	2 Peter 1:4-8	By which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.	kingdom
0	2 Peter 1:5	For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,	goodness
0	2 Peter 1:5-6	For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness,	self-control
0	2 Peter 1:5-7	For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love.	goodness,self-control
0	2 Peter 1:5-9	For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.	fruitfulness
0	2 Peter 1:6	And knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness,	patience
0	2 Peter 2:1	But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.	almighty,devil,selfishness
0	2 Peter 2:10	And especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones,	gentleness
0	2 Peter 2:11	Whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord.	angels
0	2 Peter 2:1-22	But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; ...	greed,prophecy
0	2 Peter 2:14	They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children!	greed
0	2 Peter 2:15	Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing,	idols,lying
0	2 Peter 2:17	These are waterless springs and mists driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved.	hell
0	2 Peter 2:19	They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved.	freedom
0	2 Peter 2:19-3:12	They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened to them: &ldquo;The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire.&rdquo; This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder, ...	addiction
0	2 Peter 2:3	And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep.	greed
0	2 Peter 2:4	For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;	angels,hell,judgment,sin
0	2 Peter 2:4-10	For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); ...	acknowledging
0	2 Peter 2:7-9	And if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment,	blessing
0	2 Peter 2:9	Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment,	freedom,gratitude,judgment,punishment,temptation
0	2 Peter 2:9-11	Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones, whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord.	gentleness
0	2 Peter 3:10	But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed.	blameless,heaven,judgment,second-coming
0	2 Peter 3:10-14	But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace.	world
0	2 Peter 3:11	Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness,	holiness
0	2 Peter 3:13	But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.	blameless,heaven,promises
0	2 Peter 3:15	And count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him,	patience
0	2 Peter 3:16	As he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other Scriptures.	truth,understanding
0	2 Peter 3:17	You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability.	temptation
0	2 Peter 3:18	But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.	grace,understanding
0	2 Peter 3:3	Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires.	rebirth
0	2 Peter 3:3-4	Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. They will say, &ldquo;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation.&rdquo;	world
0	2 Peter 3:5	For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God,	creation
0	2 Peter 3:7	But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly.	judgment
0	2 Peter 3:8	But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.	patience,repentance
0	2 Peter 3:9	The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance.	blameless,compassion,confession,conversion,evangelism,evil,faithfulness,god,grace,hell,idols,mercy,patience,pentecost,promises,repentance,resurrection,reward,sacrifice,salvation,savior,suffering,transformation
0	2 Samuel 1:12	And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son and for the people of the Lord and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.	fasting
0	2 Samuel 1:26	I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; very pleasant have you been to me; your love to me was extraordinary, surpassing the love of women.	friendship
0	2 Samuel 10:12	Be of good courage, and let us be courageous for our people, and for the cities of our God, and may the Lord do what seems good to him.&rdquo;	courage
0	2 Samuel 10:18	And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of 700 chariots, and 40,000 horsemen, and wounded Shobach the commander of their army, so that he died there.	almighty
0	2 Samuel 10:2	And David said, &ldquo;I will deal loyally with Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father dealt loyally with me.&rdquo; So David sent by his servants to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of the Ammonites.	friendship
0	2 Samuel 11:2	It happened, late one afternoon, when David arose from his couch and was walking on the roof of the king's house, that he saw from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful.	beauty
0	2 Samuel 12:15-17	Then Nathan went to his house. And the Lord afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and he became sick. David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on the ground. And the elders of his house stood beside him, to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did he eat food with them.	fasting
0	2 Samuel 12:16	David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on the ground.	fasting
0	2 Samuel 12:16-22	David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on the ground. And the elders of his house stood beside him, to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did he eat food with them. On the seventh day the child died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, &ldquo;Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us. How then can we say to him the child is dead? He may do himself some harm.&rdquo; But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David understood that the child was dead. And David said to his servants, &ldquo;Is the child dead?&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;He is dead.&rdquo; Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his clothes. And he went into the house of the Lord and worshiped. He then went to his own house. And when he asked, they set food before him, and he ate. ...	fasting
0	2 Samuel 12:21	Then his servants said to him, &ldquo;What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he was alive; but when the child died, you arose and ate food.&rdquo;	fasting
0	2 Samuel 12:23	But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.&rdquo;	death
0	2 Samuel 13:1	Now Absalom, David's son, had a beautiful sister, whose name was Tamar. And after a time Amnon, David's son, loved her.	beauty
0	2 Samuel 13:18	Now she was wearing a long robe with sleeves, for thus were the virgin daughters of the king dressed. So his servant put her out and bolted the door after her.	clothing
0	2 Samuel 14:17	And your servant thought, &lsquo;The word of my lord the king will set me at rest,&rsquo; for my lord the king is like the angel of God to discern good and evil. The Lord your God be with you!&rdquo;	almighty,angels
0	2 Samuel 14:20	In order to change the course of things your servant Joab did this. But my lord has wisdom like the wisdom of the angel of God to know all things that are on the earth.&rdquo;	angels
0	2 Samuel 14:25	Now in all Israel there was no one so much to be praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom. From the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.	beauty
0	2 Samuel 15:32-37	While David was coming to the summit, where God was worshiped, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat torn and dirt on his head. David said to him, &ldquo;If you go on with me, you will be a burden to me. But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, &lsquo;I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father's servant in time past, so now I will be your servant,&rsquo; then you will defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel. Are not Zadok and Abiathar the priests with you there? So whatever you hear from the king's house, tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests. Behold, their two sons are with them there, Ahimaaz, Zadok's son, and Jonathan, Abiathar's son, and by them you shall send to me everything you hear.&rdquo; ...	friendship
0	2 Samuel 17:27-29	When David came to Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the Ammonites, and Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim, brought beds, basins, and earthen vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans and lentils, honey and curds and sheep and cheese from the herd, for David and the people with him to eat, for they said, &ldquo;The people are hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness.&rdquo;	food
0	2 Samuel 18:5	And the king ordered Joab and Abishai and Ittai, &ldquo;Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.&rdquo; And all the people heard when the king gave orders to all the commanders about Absalom.	gentleness
0	2 Samuel 19:35	I am this day eighty years old. Can I discern what is pleasant and what is not? Can your servant taste what he eats or what he drinks? Can I still listen to the voice of singing men and singing women? Why then should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king?	singing
0	2 Samuel 2:6	Now may the Lord show steadfast love and faithfulness to you. And I will do good to you because you have done this thing.	gratitude
0	2 Samuel 21:8	The king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons of Merab the daughter of Saul, whom she bore to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite;	almighty,nearness
0	2 Samuel 22:26	&ldquo;With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;	mercy
0	2 Samuel 22:28	You save a humble people, but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them down.	humility
0	2 Samuel 22:31	This God&mdash;his way is perfect; the word of the Lord proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him.	relationships
0	2 Samuel 22:32	&ldquo;For who is God, but the Lord? And who is a rock, except our God?	protection
0	2 Samuel 22:33	This God is my strong refuge and has made my way blameless.	strength
0	2 Samuel 22:3-4	My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge, my savior; you save me from violence. I call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.	protection
0	2 Samuel 22:36	You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your gentleness made me great.	gentleness
0	2 Samuel 22:4	I call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.	praise
0	2 Samuel 22:40	For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me.	strength
0	2 Samuel 23:13	And three of the thirty chief men went down and came about harvest time to David at the cave of Adullam, when a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.	harvest
0	2 Samuel 23:2	&ldquo;The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me; his word is on my tongue.	spirit
0	2 Samuel 24:1	Again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, &ldquo;Go, number Israel and Judah.&rdquo;	nearness
0	2 Samuel 24:13	So Gad came to David and told him, and said to him, &ldquo;Shall three years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days' pestilence in your land? Now consider, and decide what answer I shall return to him who sent me.&rdquo;	almighty,nearness
0	2 Samuel 24:14	Then David said to Gad, &ldquo;I am in great distress. Let us fall into the hand of the Lord, for his mercy is great; but let me not fall into the hand of man.&rdquo;	mercy
0	2 Samuel 24:16	And when the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, the Lord relented from the calamity and said to the angel who was working destruction among the people, &ldquo;It is enough; now stay your hand.&rdquo; And the angel of the Lord was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.	angels
0	2 Samuel 24:24	But the king said to Araunah, &ldquo;No, but I will buy it from you for a price. I will not offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God that cost me nothing.&rdquo; So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.	giving,sacrifice
0	2 Samuel 24:9	And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to the king: in Israel there were 800,000 valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were 500,000.	ascension,nearness
0	2 Samuel 3:35	Then all the people came to persuade David to eat bread while it was yet day. But David swore, saying, &ldquo;God do so to me and more also, if I taste bread or anything else till the sun goes down!&rdquo;	fasting
0	2 Samuel 6:1-23	David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baale-judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts who sits enthroned on the cherubim. And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart, with the ark of God, and Ahio went before the ark. And David and all the house of Israel were making merry before the Lord, with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals. ...	singing
0	2 Samuel 6:14	And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen ephod.	singing
0	2 Samuel 6:19	And distributed among all the people, the whole multitude of Israel, both men and women, a cake of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins to each one. Then all the people departed, each to his house.	bread
0	2 Samuel 6:23	And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.	almighty,nearness
0	2 Samuel 7:1-29	Now when the king lived in his house and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies, the king said to Nathan the prophet, &ldquo;See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent.&rdquo; And Nathan said to the king, &ldquo;Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you.&rdquo; But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, &ldquo;Go and tell my servant David, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord: Would you build me a house to dwell in? ...	christmas
0	2 Samuel 7:13-14	He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men,	reliability
0	2 Samuel 7:28	And now, O Lord God, you are God, and your words are true, and you have promised this good thing to your servant.	trust
0	2 Samuel 8:4	And David took from him 1,700 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses but left enough for 100 chariots.	nearness
0	2 Samuel 9:1-13	And David said, &ldquo;Is there still anyone left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?&rdquo; Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David. And the king said to him, &ldquo;Are you Ziba?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;I am your servant.&rdquo; And the king said, &ldquo;Is there not still someone of the house of Saul, that I may show the kindness of God to him?&rdquo; Ziba said to the king, &ldquo;There is still a son of Jonathan; he is crippled in his feet.&rdquo; The king said to him, &ldquo;Where is he?&rdquo; And Ziba said to the king, &ldquo;He is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, at Lo-debar.&rdquo; Then King David sent and brought him from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, at Lo-debar. ...	friendship
0	2 Thessalonians 1:11	To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power,	calling
0	2 Thessalonians 1:11-12	To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.	calling
0	2 Thessalonians 1:1-12	Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering&mdash; ...	eternal-life,fruitfulness,holy-spirit
0	2 Thessalonians 1:3	We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing.	gratitude
0	2 Thessalonians 1:3-5	We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering&mdash;	righteousness
0	2 Thessalonians 1:4	Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring.	patience
0	2 Thessalonians 1:7	And to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels	angels,second-coming
0	2 Thessalonians 1:7-8	And to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.	second-coming
0	2 Thessalonians 1:8	In flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.	judgment
0	2 Thessalonians 1:8-9	In flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,	hell
0	2 Thessalonians 1:9	They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,	awe,blameless,hell
0	2 Thessalonians 2:1	Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers,	second-coming
0	2 Thessalonians 2:10-12	And with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.	addiction,miracles
0	2 Thessalonians 2:1-17	Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things? ...	comforter
0	2 Thessalonians 2:13	But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.	holiness,purification,salvation
0	2 Thessalonians 2:14	To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.	calling
0	2 Thessalonians 2:1-4	Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God.	prophecy
0	2 Thessalonians 2:14-15	To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter.	evangelism
0	2 Thessalonians 2:16	Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,	grace
0	2 Thessalonians 2:16-17	Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.	encouragement
0	2 Thessalonians 2:17	Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.	work
0	2 Thessalonians 2:3	Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction,	nearness
0	2 Thessalonians 2:8	And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming.	second-coming
0	2 Thessalonians 2:9	The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders,	devil,miracles
0	2 Thessalonians 2:9-10	The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved.	devil
0	2 Thessalonians 3:10	For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat.	giving,work
0	2 Thessalonians 3:10-12	For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.	work
0	2 Thessalonians 3:11	For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies.	gossip
0	2 Thessalonians 3:12-14	Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good. If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed.	work
0	2 Thessalonians 3:16	Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all.	peace,worrying
0	2 Thessalonians 3:3	But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.	protection,reliability,safety,strength,weakness
0	2 Thessalonians 3:5	May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ.	patience,transformation
0	2 Thessalonians 3:8	Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you.	work
0	2 Timothy 1:10	And which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,	eternal-life
0	2 Timothy 1:14	By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you.	holy-spirit,spirit
0	2 Timothy 1:2-4	To Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience, as I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day. As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy.	friendship
0	2 Timothy 1:3	I thank God whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience, as I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day.	spirit
0	2 Timothy 1:5	I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you as well.	children,family
0	2 Timothy 1:6	For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands,	miracles
0	2 Timothy 1:7	For God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control.	addiction,awe,conversion,courage,encouragement,fear,freedom,god,hope,jesus,life,mind,overcoming,peace,promises,rebirth,self-control,sickness,sin,soul,spirit,strength,thoughts,weakness,wisdom,worrying
0	2 Timothy 1:8	Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God,	persecution,suffering
0	2 Timothy 1:8-9	Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,	calling
0	2 Timothy 1:9	Who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,	calling,grace,holiness,salvation,transformation
0	2 Timothy 2:1	You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus,	grace
0	2 Timothy 2:11-12	The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him, we will also live with him; if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;	evangelism
0	2 Timothy 2:1-26	You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. ...	reconciliation
0	2 Timothy 2:13	If we are faithless, he remains faithful&mdash; for he cannot deny himself.	faithfulness
0	2 Timothy 2:15	Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth.	comforter,dependence,evangelism,fruitfulness,holy-spirit,honesty,learning,pentecost,prophecy,thoughts,transformation,truth,understanding,the-word,work
0	2 Timothy 2:16	But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness,	gossip
0	2 Timothy 2:16-26	But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some. But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: &ldquo;The Lord knows those who are his,&rdquo; and, &ldquo;Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.&rdquo; Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable. ...	listening
0	2 Timothy 2:19	But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: &ldquo;The Lord knows those who are his,&rdquo; and, &ldquo;Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.&rdquo;	savior,sin
0	2 Timothy 2:2	And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.	reliability
0	2 Timothy 2:20-23	Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.	self-control
0	2 Timothy 2:21	Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work.	fruitfulness,holiness
0	2 Timothy 2:21-26	Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, ...	blood
0	2 Timothy 2:22	So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.	equipment,heart,peace,righteousness,temptation
0	2 Timothy 2:22-26	So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.	addiction
0	2 Timothy 2:23-24	Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil,	overcoming
0	2 Timothy 2:24	And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil,	patience
0	2 Timothy 2:24-25	And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth,	gentleness
0	2 Timothy 2:24-26	And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.	gentleness,truth
0	2 Timothy 2:25	Correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth,	conversion,gentleness,repentance
0	2 Timothy 2:26	And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.	devil
0	2 Timothy 2:3	Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.	suffering
0	2 Timothy 2:4	No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.	selfishness
0	2 Timothy 2:6	It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.	work
0	2 Timothy 2:7	Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.	truth,understanding,wisdom
0	2 Timothy 3:1	But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty.	rebirth
0	2 Timothy 3:10	You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness,	patience
0	2 Timothy 3:10-12	You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra&mdash;which persecutions I endured; yet from them all the Lord rescued me. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,	persecution
0	2 Timothy 3:1-17	But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people. ...	selfishness,understanding
0	2 Timothy 3:12	Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,	persecution,suffering
0	2 Timothy 3:1-3	But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good,	rebirth
0	2 Timothy 3:14-15	But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.	children
0	2 Timothy 3:15	And how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.	children,comforter,learning,salvation
0	2 Timothy 3:1-5	But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.	evil,gossip,sin
0	2 Timothy 3:15-17	And how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.	the-word
0	2 Timothy 3:16	All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,	almighty,blameless,children,church,comforter,fruitfulness,god,goodness,law,learning,life,nearness,promises,prophecy,purification,redeemer,reliability,righteousness,thoughts,transformation,truth,understanding,the-word
0	2 Timothy 3:16-17	All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.	faithfulness,fruitfulness,learning,mediator,neighbor,savior,serving,truth,wisdom,the-word
0	2 Timothy 3:17	That the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.	reliability
0	2 Timothy 3:2	For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,	equipment,greed,rebirth
0	2 Timothy 3:2-4	For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,	selfishness
0	2 Timothy 3:3	Heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good,	self-control
0	2 Timothy 3:4	Treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,	rebirth
0	2 Timothy 3:6	For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions,	rebirth
0	2 Timothy 3:7	Always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth.	learning
0	2 Timothy 4:1	I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom:	redeemer,second-coming
0	2 Timothy 4:14	Alexander the coppersmith did me great harm; the Lord will repay him according to his deeds.	reward
0	2 Timothy 4:16	At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against them!	friendship
0	2 Timothy 4:17	But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. So I was rescued from the lion's mouth.	strength,weakness
0	2 Timothy 4:18	The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.	evil,protection,safety,temptation
0	2 Timothy 4:2	Preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching.	church,patience,punishment
0	2 Timothy 4:22	The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.	grace
0	2 Timothy 4:3	For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions,	blameless,rebirth
0	2 Timothy 4:4	And will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths.	rebirth
0	2 Timothy 4:5	As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.	evangelism
0	2 Timothy 4:7	I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.	faith
0	2 Timothy 4:7-8	I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.	reward
0	2 Timothy 4:8	Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.	judgment,reward,second-coming
0	3 John 1:11	Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God.	holiness
0	3 John 1:1-15	The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul. For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, ...	selfishness
0	3 John 1:2	Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul.	blessing,food,healing,health,promises,sickness
0	3 John 1:3-4	For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.	truth
0	3 John 1:4	I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.	children,joy,truth
0	3 John 1:9	I have written something to the church, but Diotrephes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority.	selfishness
0	Acts 1:1	In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach,	awe,pentecost
0	Acts 1:10-11	And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, &ldquo;Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Acts 1:11	And said, &ldquo;Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.&rdquo;	ascension,heaven,second-coming
0	Acts 1:1-26	In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach, until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, &ldquo;you heard from me; for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.&rdquo; ...	ascension,pentecost,understanding
0	Acts 1:14	All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.	community,mediator,pentecost,prayer
0	Acts 1:14-22	All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers. In those days Peter stood up among the brothers (the company of persons was in all about 120) and said, &ldquo;Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus. For he was numbered among us and was allotted his share in this ministry.&rdquo; (Now this man acquired a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out. ...	spirit
0	Acts 1:16	&ldquo;Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus.	prophecy
0	Acts 1:18	(Now this man acquired a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.	almighty,fruitfulness,nearness,transformation
0	Acts 1:20	&ldquo;For it is written in the Book of Psalms, &ldquo;&lsquo;May his camp become desolate, and let there be no one to dwell in it&rsquo;; and &ldquo;&lsquo;Let another take his office.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 1:21-22	So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us&mdash;one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection.&rdquo;	spirit
0	Acts 1:22	Beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us&mdash;one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection.&rdquo;	baptism,resurrection
0	Acts 1:3	He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God.	ascension,easter,nearness,resurrection
0	Acts 1:4	And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, &ldquo;you heard from me;	pentecost
0	Acts 1:5	For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.&rdquo;	baptism,pentecost
0	Acts 1:6	So when they had come together, they asked him, &ldquo;Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?&rdquo;	kingdom,pentecost
0	Acts 1:8	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.&rdquo;	calling,church,evangelism,god,holy-spirit,learning,life,nearness,pentecost,redeemer,spirit,transformation,weakness
0	Acts 1:9-11	And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, &ldquo;Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.&rdquo;	ascension,second-coming
0	Acts 10:1-11:30	At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian Cohort, a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God. About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him, &ldquo;Cornelius.&rdquo; And he stared at him in terror and said, &ldquo;What is it, Lord?&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon who is called Peter. ...	food
0	Acts 10:1-48	At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian Cohort, a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God. About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him, &ldquo;Cornelius.&rdquo; And he stared at him in terror and said, &ldquo;What is it, Lord?&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon who is called Peter. ...	acknowledging,holy-spirit,strength
0	Acts 10:19	And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, &ldquo;Behold, three men are looking for you.	holy-spirit
0	Acts 10:2	A devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God.	family
0	Acts 10:28	And he said to them, &ldquo;You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or to visit anyone of another nation, but God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean.	acknowledging
0	Acts 10:30	And Cornelius said, &ldquo;Four days ago, about this hour, I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing	fasting
0	Acts 10:34-35	So Peter opened his mouth and said: &ldquo;Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.	world
0	Acts 10:36	As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ (he is Lord of all),	redeemer
0	Acts 10:37	You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed:	baptism
0	Acts 10:37-38	You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed: how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.	sickness
0	Acts 10:38	How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.	awe,comforter,devil,goodness,healing,health,redeemer,sickness
0	Acts 10:42	And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead.	judgment,redeemer
0	Acts 10:43	To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.&rdquo;	forgiveness,redeemer
0	Acts 10:44	While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.	baptism
0	Acts 10:44-46	While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared,	holy-spirit
0	Acts 10:44-48	While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared, &ldquo;Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?&rdquo; And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.	baptism
0	Acts 10:45	And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles.	comforter
0	Acts 10:45-46	And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared,	acknowledging
0	Acts 10:47	&ldquo;Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?&rdquo;	acknowledging,baptism
0	Acts 10:47-48	&ldquo;Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?&rdquo; And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.	baptism
0	Acts 10:48	And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.	baptism
0	Acts 11:1-30	Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party criticized him, saying, &ldquo;You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them.&rdquo; But Peter began and explained it to them in order: &ldquo;I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheet descending, being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me. ...	grace
0	Acts 11:15	As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning.	speaking
0	Acts 11:16	And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, &lsquo;John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.&rsquo;	baptism
0	Acts 11:18	When they heard these things they fell silent. And they glorified God, saying, &ldquo;Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life.&rdquo;	repentance,salvation
0	Acts 11:19	Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews.	persecution
0	Acts 11:21	And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.	repentance
0	Acts 11:25-26	So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians.	church
0	Acts 12:1-6	About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church. He killed James the brother of John with the sword, and when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the days of Unleavened Bread. And when he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people. So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church. ...	contentment
0	Acts 12:21	On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon the throne, and delivered an oration to them.	clothing
0	Acts 12:23	Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him down, because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and breathed his last.	angels
0	Acts 12:4	And when he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.	easter
0	Acts 12:5	So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church.	church,community,prayer
0	Acts 13:1	Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.	church
0	Acts 13:10	And said, &ldquo;You son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy, will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord?	devil
0	Acts 13:1-3	Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, &ldquo;Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.&rdquo; Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.	fasting
0	Acts 13:14	But they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down.	sabbath
0	Acts 13:1-52	Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, &ldquo;Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.&rdquo; Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off. So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John to assist them. ...	fasting
0	Acts 13:2	While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, &ldquo;Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.&rdquo;	fasting,holy-spirit
0	Acts 13:22	And when he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified and said, &lsquo;I have found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my will.&rsquo;	heart
0	Acts 13:23	Of this man's offspring God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised.	savior
0	Acts 13:2-3	While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, &ldquo;Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.&rdquo; Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.	fasting
0	Acts 13:24	Before his coming, John had proclaimed a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.	baptism,repentance
0	Acts 13:27	For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him nor understand the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.	prophecy,sabbath
0	Acts 13:3	Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.	fasting
0	Acts 13:33	This he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus, as also it is written in the second Psalm, &ldquo;&lsquo;You are my Son, today I have begotten you.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 13:34	And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in this way, &ldquo;&lsquo;I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 13:34-35	And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in this way, &ldquo;&lsquo;I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.&rsquo; Therefore he says also in another psalm, &ldquo;&lsquo;You will not let your Holy One see corruption.&rsquo;	easter
0	Acts 13:35	Therefore he says also in another psalm, &ldquo;&lsquo;You will not let your Holy One see corruption.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 13:38-39	Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.	forgiveness,freedom
0	Acts 13:39	And by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.	freedom,law
0	Acts 13:40	Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the Prophets should come about:	prophecy
0	Acts 13:42	As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath.	sabbath
0	Acts 13:44	The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.	sabbath
0	Acts 13:46	And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, &ldquo;It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles.	eternal-life
0	Acts 13:47	For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, &ldquo;&lsquo;I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.&rsquo;&rdquo;	calling,evangelism,light,prophecy,salvation
0	Acts 13:48	And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.	eternal-life,salvation
0	Acts 13:50	But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district.	persecution
0	Acts 13:52	And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.	joy
0	Acts 14:1	Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed.	speaking
0	Acts 14:10	Said in a loud voice, &ldquo;Stand upright on your feet.&rdquo; And he sprang up and began walking.	miracles
0	Acts 14:1-28	Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers. So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. But the people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews and some with the apostles. When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to mistreat them and to stone them, ...	savior
0	Acts 14:15	&ldquo;Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men, of like nature with you, and we bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them.	creation
0	Acts 14:17	Yet he did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness.&rdquo;	food
0	Acts 14:21-22	When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.	persecution
0	Acts 14:22	Strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.	persecution,suffering
0	Acts 14:23	And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they had believed.	church,fasting
0	Acts 14:3	So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.	miracles,sickness
0	Acts 15:10	Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?	freedom
0	Acts 15:11	But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.&rdquo;	grace
0	Acts 15:1-41	But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, &ldquo;Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.&rdquo; And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question. So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers. When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared all that God had done with them. But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, &ldquo;It is necessary to circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses.&rdquo; ...	blood,evangelism
0	Acts 15:16-17	&ldquo;&lsquo;After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it, that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things	seeking
0	Acts 15:17	That the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things	prophecy
0	Acts 15:20	But should write to them to abstain from the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled, and from blood.	blood,idols
0	Acts 15:20-29	But should write to them to abstain from the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled, and from blood. For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.&rdquo; Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers, with the following letter: &ldquo;The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings. Since we have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words, unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions, ...	sin
0	Acts 15:21	For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Acts 15:28	For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements:	holy-spirit
0	Acts 15:29	That you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell.&rdquo;	blood,idols
0	Acts 15:3	So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers.	conversion
0	Acts 15:7-10	And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, &ldquo;Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?	contentment
0	Acts 15:7-15	And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, &ldquo;Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.&rdquo; ...	salvation
0	Acts 15:8	And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us,	heart
0	Acts 15:9	And he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.	purification
0	Acts 16:13	And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.	sabbath
0	Acts 16:14	One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.	heart,listening
0	Acts 16:1-40	Paul came also to Derbe and to Lystra. A disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek. He was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium. Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem. So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and they increased in numbers daily. ...	baptism,confession,equipment,evangelism,receiving
0	Acts 16:15	And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, &ldquo;If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay.&rdquo; And she prevailed upon us.	baptism
0	Acts 16:18	And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, &ldquo;I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her.&rdquo; And it came out that very hour.	miracles
0	Acts 16:25	About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them,	listening,praise,singing,worship
0	Acts 16:30-31	Then he brought them out and said, &ldquo;Sirs, what must I do to be saved?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&rdquo;	church,salvation
0	Acts 16:30-33	Then he brought them out and said, &ldquo;Sirs, what must I do to be saved?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&rdquo; And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all his family.	salvation
0	Acts 16:31	And they said, &ldquo;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&rdquo;	baptism,children,eternal-life,redeemer,salvation
0	Acts 16:31-34	And they said, &ldquo;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&rdquo; And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God.	family
0	Acts 16:33	And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all his family.	baptism,conversion
0	Acts 16:6	And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.	holy-spirit
0	Acts 17:10-11	The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived they went into the Jewish synagogue. Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica; they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.	bread,dependence,freedom,fruitfulness,generosity,harvest,punishment,purification,reconciliation,reliability,reward,sacrifice,suffering,transformation,valuable,weakness
0	Acts 17:11	Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica; they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.	comforter,jesus,thoughts,understanding,the-word
0	Acts 17:16-29	Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there. Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. And some said, &ldquo;What does this babbler wish to say?&rdquo; Others said, &ldquo;He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities&rdquo;&mdash;because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, &ldquo;May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting? For you bring some strange things to our ears. We wish to know therefore what these things mean.&rdquo; ...	idols
0	Acts 17:2	And Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,	easter,sabbath
0	Acts 17:24	The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man,	creation
0	Acts 17:24-25	The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything.	church
0	Acts 17:24-26	The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,	god
0	Acts 17:24-28	The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place, that they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us, for &ldquo;&lsquo;In him we live and move and have our being&rsquo;; as even some of your own poets have said, &ldquo;&lsquo;For we are indeed his offspring.&rsquo;	creation,world
0	Acts 17:25	Nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything.	serving
0	Acts 17:26	And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,	slavery
0	Acts 17:26-27	And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place, that they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us,	seeking
0	Acts 17:27	That they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us,	seeking
0	Acts 17:28	For &ldquo;&lsquo;In him we live and move and have our being&rsquo;; as even some of your own poets have said, &ldquo;&lsquo;For we are indeed his offspring.&rsquo;	creation,dependence
0	Acts 17:30	The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,	conversion,eternal-life,forgiveness,repentance,salvation
0	Acts 17:30-31	The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead.&rdquo;	conversion,world
0	Acts 17:31	Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead.&rdquo;	judgment,resurrection,second-coming
0	Acts 18:25	He had been instructed in the way of the Lord. And being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.	baptism
0	Acts 18:4	And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.	sabbath
0	Acts 18:5	When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus.	confession
0	Acts 18:8	Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.	baptism,family
0	Acts 18:8-10	Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized. And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people.&rdquo;	safety
0	Acts 19:11	And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,	miracles
0	Acts 19:11-16	And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, so that even handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his skin were carried away to the sick, and their diseases left them and the evil spirits came out of them. Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, &ldquo;I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul proclaims.&rdquo; Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva were doing this. But the evil spirit answered them, &ldquo;Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?&rdquo; ...	grace
0	Acts 19:1-41	And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples. And he said to them, &ldquo;Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Into what then were you baptized?&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;Into John's baptism.&rdquo; And Paul said, &ldquo;John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.&rdquo; On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. ...	holy-spirit,pentecost
0	Acts 19:1-6	And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples. And he said to them, &ldquo;Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Into what then were you baptized?&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;Into John's baptism.&rdquo; And Paul said, &ldquo;John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.&rdquo; On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. ...	baptism
0	Acts 19:2	And he said to them, &ldquo;Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Acts 19:24	For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen.	idols
0	Acts 19:25	These he gathered together, with the workmen in similar trades, and said, &ldquo;Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth.	idols
0	Acts 19:2-6	And he said to them, &ldquo;Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?&rdquo; And they said, &ldquo;No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Into what then were you baptized?&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;Into John's baptism.&rdquo; And Paul said, &ldquo;John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.&rdquo; On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.	holy-spirit
0	Acts 19:3	And he said, &ldquo;Into what then were you baptized?&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;Into John's baptism.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Acts 19:4	And Paul said, &ldquo;John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.&rdquo;	baptism,confession,repentance
0	Acts 19:5	On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.	baptism,confession
0	Acts 19:6	And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.	holy-spirit,miracles
0	Acts 2:1	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place.	pentecost
0	Acts 2:10	Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,	pentecost
0	Acts 2:11	Both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians&mdash;we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God.&rdquo;	calling
0	Acts 2:1-13	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. ...	pentecost
0	Acts 2:13	But others mocking said, &ldquo;They are filled with new wine.&rdquo;	wine
0	Acts 2:1-4	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.	baptism,pentecost
0	Acts 2:1-4:37	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. ...	poverty
0	Acts 2:1-47	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. ...	baptism,calling,church,comforter,confession,evangelism,grace,holy-spirit,pentecost,salvation,speaking,spirit
0	Acts 2:16	But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel:	pentecost
0	Acts 2:16-21	But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel: &ldquo;&lsquo;And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams; even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke; the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day. ...	prophecy
0	Acts 2:17	&ldquo;&lsquo;And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams;	comforter,spirit
0	Acts 2:18	Even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy.	nearness
0	Acts 2:2	And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.	pentecost
0	Acts 2:21	And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.&rsquo;	following,redeemer,salvation
0	Acts 2:22	&ldquo;Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know&mdash;	comforter,mediator,miracles,nearness,reliability
0	Acts 2:25-28	For David says concerning him, &ldquo;&lsquo;I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken; therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; my flesh also will dwell in hope. For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy One see corruption. You have made known to me the paths of life; you will make me full of gladness with your presence.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 2:27	For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy One see corruption.	beauty,hell,soul
0	Acts 2:28	You have made known to me the paths of life; you will make me full of gladness with your presence.&rsquo;	joy
0	Acts 2:29	&ldquo;Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.	ascension
0	Acts 2:30	Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne,	prophecy
0	Acts 2:31	He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.	hell,prophecy
0	Acts 2:33	Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.	comforter
0	Acts 2:3-4	And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.	pentecost
0	Acts 2:36-41	Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified.&rdquo; Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, &ldquo;Brothers, what shall we do?&rdquo; And Peter said to them, &ldquo;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&rdquo; And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, &ldquo;Save yourselves from this crooked generation.&rdquo; ...	salvation
0	Acts 2:37-39	Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, &ldquo;Brothers, what shall we do?&rdquo; And Peter said to them, &ldquo;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&rdquo;	conversion,world
0	Acts 2:38	And Peter said to them, &ldquo;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.	ascension,awe,baptism,blameless,calling,church,clothing,comforter,confession,conversion,covenant,evangelism,faithfulness,forgiveness,gentleness,goodness,holy-spirit,jesus,messiah,obedience,pentecost,receiving,repentance,salvation,savior,seeking,speaking,spirit,transformation,weakness,world
0	Acts 2:38-39	And Peter said to them, &ldquo;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&rdquo;	calling,promises
0	Acts 2:4	And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.	comforter,holy-spirit,pentecost,spirit
0	Acts 2:40	And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, &ldquo;Save yourselves from this crooked generation.&rdquo;	conversion,world
0	Acts 2:41	So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.	baptism,conversion,pentecost,salvation,soul,the-word
0	Acts 2:42	And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.	church,community,pentecost,prayer
0	Acts 2:42-47	And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, ...	church,community
0	Acts 2:44-45	And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.	generosity,giving,money,sacrifice
0	Acts 2:44-47	And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.	community
0	Acts 2:45	And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.	generosity,materialism
0	Acts 2:46	And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts,	bread,heart,pentecost
0	Acts 2:46-47	And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.	community,food
0	Acts 2:47	Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.	church
0	Acts 2:5	Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.	pentecost
0	Acts 2:6	And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language.	pentecost
0	Acts 2:6-21	And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, &ldquo;Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, ...	prophecy
0	Acts 2:7	And they were amazed and astonished, saying, &ldquo;Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?	pentecost
0	Acts 20:1-38	After the uproar ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and after encouraging them, he said farewell and departed for Macedonia. When he had gone through those regions and had given them much encouragement, he came to Greece. There he spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia. Sopater the Berean, son of Pyrrhus, accompanied him; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus. These went on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas, ...	serving
0	Acts 20:16	For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost.	pentecost
0	Acts 20:16-28	For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost. Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him. And when they came to him, he said to them: &ldquo;You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day that I set foot in Asia, serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews; how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house, ...	family
0	Acts 20:19	Serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews;	humility
0	Acts 20:20	How I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house,	learning
0	Acts 20:21	Testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.	repentance
0	Acts 20:24	But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.	evangelism,grace,idols,selfishness
0	Acts 20:24-21:13	But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again. Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you, for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood. ...	materialism
0	Acts 20:28	Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.	blood,church,holy-spirit,redeemer,truth
0	Acts 20:32	And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.	grace
0	Acts 20:33-35	I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who were with me. In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, &lsquo;It is more blessed to give than to receive.&rsquo;&rdquo;	generosity
0	Acts 20:35	In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, &lsquo;It is more blessed to give than to receive.&rsquo;&rdquo;	christmas,equipment,generosity,gentleness,giving,greed,money,neighbor,orphans,selfishness,serving,work
0	Acts 20:35-38	In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, &lsquo;It is more blessed to give than to receive.&rsquo;&rdquo; And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. And there was much weeping on the part of all; they embraced Paul and kissed him, being sorrowful most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship.	serving
0	Acts 20:7	On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.	bread,pentecost
0	Acts 21:10	While we were staying for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.	holy-spirit
0	Acts 21:24	Take these men and purify yourself along with them and pay their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you yourself also live in observance of the law.	purification
0	Acts 21:25	But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have sent a letter with our judgment that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality.&rdquo;	blood
0	Acts 21:26	Then Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself along with them and went into the temple, giving notice when the days of purification would be fulfilled and the offering presented for each one of them.	purification
0	Acts 21:8	On the next day we departed and came to Caesarea, and we entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.	evangelism
0	Acts 22:16	And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.&rsquo;	baptism,calling,forgiveness,redeemer,salvation
0	Acts 22:3	&ldquo;I am a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated at the feet of Gamaliel according to the strict manner of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God as all of you are this day.	conversion
0	Acts 22:4	I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering to prison both men and women,	conversion
0	Acts 22:6	&ldquo;As I was on my way and drew near to Damascus, about noon a great light from heaven suddenly shone around me.	resurrection
0	Acts 24:14	But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets,	courage,covenant
0	Acts 24:15	Having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust.	hell,hope,resurrection
0	Acts 24:16	So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both God and man.	honesty
0	Acts 24:23	Then he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody but have some liberty, and that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs.	freedom
0	Acts 24:24-25	After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus. And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, &ldquo;Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity I will summon you.&rdquo;	self-control
0	Acts 24:25	And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, &ldquo;Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity I will summon you.&rdquo;	self-control
0	Acts 24:3	In every way and everywhere we accept this with all gratitude.	gratitude
0	Acts 26:13	At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, that shone around me and those who journeyed with me.	light
0	Acts 26:16-18	But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles&mdash;to whom I am sending you to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&rsquo;	conversion
0	Acts 26:17-18	Delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles&mdash;to whom I am sending you to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&rsquo;	devil
0	Acts 26:18	To open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&rsquo;	conversion,light
0	Acts 26:20	But declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance.	conversion,repentance
0	Acts 26:22-23	To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass: that the Christ must suffer and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles.&rdquo;	light,suffering
0	Acts 26:23	That the Christ must suffer and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles.&rdquo;	prophecy
0	Acts 26:28-32	And Agrippa said to Paul, &ldquo;In a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian?&rdquo; And Paul said, &ldquo;Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am&mdash;except for these chains.&rdquo; Then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice and those who were sitting with them. And when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, &ldquo;This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment.&rdquo; And Agrippa said to Festus, &ldquo;This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.&rdquo;	conversion
0	Acts 26:29	And Paul said, &ldquo;Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am&mdash;except for these chains.&rdquo;	listening
0	Acts 26:6-7	And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers, to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O king!	serving
0	Acts 27:23	For this very night there stood before me an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship,	angels
0	Acts 27:33	As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, &ldquo;Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing.	fasting
0	Acts 27:34	Therefore I urge you to take some food. For it will give you strength, for not a hair is to perish from the head of any of you.&rdquo;	health
0	Acts 27:9	Since much time had passed, and the voyage was now dangerous because even the Fast was already over, Paul advised them,	fasting
0	Acts 28:15	And the brothers there, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of Appius and Three Taverns to meet us. On seeing them, Paul thanked God and took courage.	courage
0	Acts 28:23	When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From morning till evening he expounded to them, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus both from the Law of Moses and from the Prophets.	holy-spirit
0	Acts 28:27	For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed; lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.&rsquo;	healing,heart
0	Acts 28:28	Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen.&rdquo;	salvation
0	Acts 28:31	Proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance.	kingdom
0	Acts 28:5	He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm.	miracles
0	Acts 28:8	It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery. And Paul visited him and prayed, and putting his hands on him healed him.	health,miracles,sickness
0	Acts 28:9	And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured.	miracles
0	Acts 3:12-26	And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: &ldquo;Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk? The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release him. But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses. And his name&mdash;by faith in his name&mdash;has made this man strong whom you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all. ...	courage
0	Acts 3:15	And you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses.	easter,father,resurrection
0	Acts 3:16	And his name&mdash;by faith in his name&mdash;has made this man strong whom you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all.	miracles
0	Acts 3:19	Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out,	conversion,forgiveness,reconciliation,repentance,salvation,transformation,world
0	Acts 3:19-21	Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus, whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago.	conversion,world
0	Acts 3:22	Moses said, &lsquo;The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you.	father,prophecy
0	Acts 3:25	You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, &lsquo;And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.&rsquo;	covenant,prophecy
0	Acts 3:6	But Peter said, &ldquo;I have no silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk!&rdquo;	generosity,miracles,sacrifice
0	Acts 4:10	Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead&mdash;by him this man is standing before you well.	mediator
0	Acts 4:11-12	This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Acts 4:12	And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&rdquo;	awe,baptism,blameless,encouragement,heaven,hell,jesus,mediator,punishment,redeemer,resurrection,salvation,savior
0	Acts 4:1-37	And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand. On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem, ...	salvation
0	Acts 4:20	For we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard.&rdquo;	courage
0	Acts 4:30	While you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus.&rdquo;	healing,miracles
0	Acts 4:31	And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness.	courage,pentecost,spirit
0	Acts 4:31-6:15	And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need. ...	materialism
0	Acts 4:32	Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common.	community
0	Acts 4:32-35	Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need.	community,equipment,generosity,money,neighbor,serving,widows
0	Acts 4:33	And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.	easter,grace,resurrection
0	Acts 4:34-37	There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need. Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus, sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.	generosity
0	Acts 4:9-13	If we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead&mdash;by him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&rdquo; Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated, common men, they were astonished. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.	courage
0	Acts 5:19	But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out, and said,	angels
0	Acts 5:29	But Peter and the apostles answered, &ldquo;We must obey God rather than men.	law,obedience
0	Acts 5:3	But Peter said, &ldquo;Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land?	comforter,devil,lying
0	Acts 5:31	God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.	christmas,jesus,repentance
0	Acts 5:32	And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.&rdquo;	holy-spirit,obedience,spirit
0	Acts 5:41	Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name.	suffering
0	Acts 5:42	And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ.	learning
0	Acts 6:8	And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people.	courage,grace
0	Acts 7:48	Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says,	nearness
0	Acts 7:48-53	Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says, &ldquo;&lsquo;Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things?&rsquo; &ldquo;You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, whom you have now betrayed and murdered, ...	church
0	Acts 7:49	&ldquo;&lsquo;Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest?	heaven
0	Acts 7:51	&ldquo;You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you.	holy-spirit,spirit
0	Acts 7:52	Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, whom you have now betrayed and murdered,	persecution
0	Acts 7:53	You who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it.&rdquo;	angels,law
0	Acts 7:54-59	Now when they heard these things they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And he said, &ldquo;Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.&rdquo; But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. ...	transformation
0	Acts 7:54-60	Now when they heard these things they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And he said, &ldquo;Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.&rdquo; But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. ...	persecution
0	Acts 7:59	And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, &ldquo;Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.&rdquo;	comforter,redeemer
0	Acts 7:59-60	And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, &ldquo;Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.&rdquo; And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, &ldquo;Lord, do not hold this sin against them.&rdquo; And when he had said this, he fell asleep.	forgiveness,persecution
0	Acts 7:60	And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, &ldquo;Lord, do not hold this sin against them.&rdquo; And when he had said this, he fell asleep.	death
0	Acts 7:8	And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day, and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.	covenant
0	Acts 8:1	And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.	persecution
0	Acts 8:12	But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.	baptism,conversion
0	Acts 8:13	Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed.	baptism
0	Acts 8:1-40	And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church, and entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. ...	baptism
0	Acts 8:2	Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him.	pentecost
0	Acts 8:20	But Peter said to him, &ldquo;May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!	materialism,money
0	Acts 8:21	You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.	heart
0	Acts 8:22	Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, the intent of your heart may be forgiven you.	heart,repentance
0	Acts 8:26	Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, &ldquo;Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.&rdquo; This is a desert place.	angels
0	Acts 8:26-40	Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, &ldquo;Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.&rdquo; This is a desert place. And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, &ldquo;Go over and join this chariot.&rdquo; So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, &ldquo;Do you understand what you are reading?&rdquo; ...	acknowledging
0	Acts 8:35-36	Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &ldquo;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&rdquo;	confession
0	Acts 8:35-38	Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &ldquo;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&rdquo; And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.	baptism
0	Acts 8:36	And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &ldquo;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&rdquo;	baptism
0	Acts 8:36-38	And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &ldquo;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&rdquo; And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.	baptism
0	Acts 8:38	And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.	baptism
0	Acts 8:4-25	Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. And the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip when they heard him and saw the signs that he did. For unclean spirits, crying out with a loud voice, came out of many who had them, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed. So there was much joy in that city. ...	evangelism
0	Acts 9:1	But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest	conversion
0	Acts 9:1-43	But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, &ldquo;Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Who are you, Lord?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. ...	conversion
0	Acts 9:15	But the Lord said to him, &ldquo;Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel.	conversion
0	Acts 9:17	So Ananias departed and entered the house. And laying his hands on him he said, &ldquo;Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you came has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.&rdquo;	holy-spirit
0	Acts 9:18	And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose and was baptized;	baptism
0	Acts 9:19	And taking food, he was strengthened. For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus.	conversion
0	Acts 9:1-9	But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, &ldquo;Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Who are you, Lord?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. ...	transformation
0	Acts 9:3	Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.	conversion,light
0	Acts 9:31	So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied.	church,fear
0	Acts 9:34	And Peter said to him, &ldquo;Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed.&rdquo; And immediately he rose.	healing,miracles
0	Acts 9:4	And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, &ldquo;Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?&rdquo;	conversion
0	Acts 9:7	The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.	conversion
0	Acts 9:9	And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank.	conversion,fasting
0	Amos 3:1-7:17	Hear this word that the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt: &ldquo;You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. &ldquo;Do two walk together, unless they have agreed to meet? Does a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den, if he has taken nothing? Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth, when there is no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the ground, when it has taken nothing? ...	planning
0	Amos 3:2	&ldquo;You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.	judgment
0	Amos 3:3	&ldquo;Do two walk together, unless they have agreed to meet?	friendship,receiving,relationships
0	Amos 3:7	&ldquo;For the Lord God does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets.	planning,prophecy
0	Amos 4:12	&ldquo;Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel!&rdquo;	judgment
0	Amos 4:1-5:27	&ldquo;Hear this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who say to your husbands, &lsquo;Bring, that we may drink!&rsquo; The Lord God has sworn by his holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you, when they shall take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fishhooks. And you shall go out through the breaches, each one straight ahead; and you shall be cast out into Harmon,&rdquo; declares the Lord. &ldquo;Come to Bethel, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days; offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill offerings, publish them; for so you love to do, O people of Israel!&rdquo; declares the Lord God. ...	poverty
0	Amos 4:4-5	&ldquo;Come to Bethel, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days; offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill offerings, publish them; for so you love to do, O people of Israel!&rdquo; declares the Lord God.	giving
0	Amos 4:7	&ldquo;I also withheld the rain from you when there were yet three months to the harvest; I would send rain on one city, and send no rain on another city; one field would have rain, and the field on which it did not rain would wither;	harvest
0	Amos 5:10	They hate him who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks the truth.	persecution
0	Amos 5:13	Therefore he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time.	speaking
0	Amos 5:14	Seek good, and not evil, that you may live; and so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said.	holiness,seeking
0	Amos 5:1-6:14	Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel: &ldquo;Fallen, no more to rise, is the virgin Israel; forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up.&rdquo; For thus says the Lord God: &ldquo;The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel.&rdquo; For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: &ldquo;Seek me and live; but do not seek Bethel, and do not enter into Gilgal or cross over to Beersheba; for Gilgal shall surely go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing.&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	Amos 5:24	But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.	law,poverty
0	Amos 5:4	For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: &ldquo;Seek me and live;	seeking
0	Amos 5:4-6	For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: &ldquo;Seek me and live; but do not seek Bethel, and do not enter into Gilgal or cross over to Beersheba; for Gilgal shall surely go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing.&rdquo; Seek the Lord and live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, with none to quench it for Bethel,	seeking
0	Amos 5:6	Seek the Lord and live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, with none to quench it for Bethel,	purification
0	Amos 6:4-14	&ldquo;Woe to those who lie on beds of ivory and stretch themselves out on their couches, and eat lambs from the flock and calves from the midst of the stall, who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp and like David invent for themselves instruments of music, who drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph! Therefore they shall now be the first of those who go into exile, and the revelry of those who stretch themselves out shall pass away.&rdquo; The Lord God has sworn by himself, declares the Lord, the God of hosts: &ldquo;I abhor the pride of Jacob and hate his strongholds, and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it.&rdquo; ...	selfishness
0	Amos 6:5	Who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp and like David invent for themselves instruments of music,	singing
0	Amos 8:1-14	This is what the Lord God showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit. And he said, &ldquo;Amos, what do you see?&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;A basket of summer fruit.&rdquo; Then the Lord said to me, &ldquo;The end has come upon my people Israel; I will never again pass by them. The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day,&rdquo; declares the Lord God. &ldquo;So many dead bodies!&rdquo; &ldquo;They are thrown everywhere!&rdquo; &ldquo;Silence!&rdquo; Hear this, you who trample on the needy and bring the poor of the land to an end, saying, &ldquo;When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may offer wheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances, ...	singing
0	Amos 8:5	Saying, &ldquo;When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may offer wheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances,	sabbath
0	Amos 9:11-12	&ldquo;In that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen and repair its breaches, and raise up its ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old, that they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations who are called by my name,&rdquo; declares the Lord who does this.	seeking
0	Amos 9:13	&ldquo;Behold, the days are coming,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;when the plowman shall overtake the reaper and the treader of grapes him who sows the seed; the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it.	harvest
0	Amos 9:14-15	I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit. I will plant them on their land, and they shall never again be uprooted out of the land that I have given them,&rdquo; says the Lord your God.	rebirth
0	Amos 9:6	Who builds his upper chambers in the heavens and founds his vault upon the earth; who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth&mdash; the Lord is his name.	creation
0	Colossians 1:10	So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God.	fruitfulness,transformation
0	Colossians 1:11	May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy,	blessing,joy,patience
0	Colossians 1:12	Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light.	heaven
0	Colossians 1:12-13	Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,	conversion
0	Colossians 1:1-29	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, ...	conversion,evil,freedom,fruitfulness,holy-spirit,planning,seeking,transformation,weakness
0	Colossians 1:13	He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,	kingdom
0	Colossians 1:13-14	He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.	calling,covenant,easter,forgiveness,kingdom
0	Colossians 1:13-23	He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&mdash;all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. ...	family
0	Colossians 1:14	In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.	blood,forgiveness
0	Colossians 1:1-4:18	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, ...	easter
0	Colossians 1:15	He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.	almighty,comforter,mediator,redeemer
0	Colossians 1:15-16	He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&mdash;all things were created through him and for him.	creation
0	Colossians 1:15-18	He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&mdash;all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.	redeemer
0	Colossians 1:16	For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&mdash;all things were created through him and for him.	almighty,angels,awe,blameless,comforter,creation,mediator,redeemer
0	Colossians 1:16-17	For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&mdash;all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together.	creation
0	Colossians 1:18	And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.	blameless,body,church,redeemer
0	Colossians 1:19	For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell,	comforter
0	Colossians 1:20	And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.	blood,reconciliation
0	Colossians 1:20-21	And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds,	reconciliation
0	Colossians 1:20-22	And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,	reconciliation
0	Colossians 1:21-22	And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,	transformation
0	Colossians 1:22	He has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,	freedom,holiness,reconciliation
0	Colossians 1:23	If indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister.	blessing,hope
0	Colossians 1:24	Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church,	body,church,suffering
0	Colossians 1:27	To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.	blameless,hope
0	Colossians 1:28	Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ.	evangelism
0	Colossians 1:3	We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you,	prayer
0	Colossians 1:5	Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel,	hope
0	Colossians 1:5-6	Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and growing&mdash;as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth,	truth
0	Colossians 1:9	And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,	wisdom
0	Colossians 1:9-12	And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light.	kingdom
0	Colossians 1:9-29	And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, ...	understanding
0	Colossians 2:11-12	In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.	baptism
0	Colossians 2:12	Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.	baptism,rebirth
0	Colossians 2:12-13	Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,	baptism
0	Colossians 2:1-23	For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. ...	christmas,community,courage,evil,humility,seeking,spirit
0	Colossians 2:13	And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,	rebirth
0	Colossians 2:13-15	And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.	grace
0	Colossians 2:14	By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.	blameless,debt
0	Colossians 2:16	Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath.	pentecost,sabbath
0	Colossians 2:16-17	Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath. These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.	food,sabbath
0	Colossians 2:18	Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind,	angels,idols
0	Colossians 2:2	That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ,	grace
0	Colossians 2:23	These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.	humility
0	Colossians 2:2-3	That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.	wisdom
0	Colossians 2:23-3:12	These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. ...	materialism,temptation
0	Colossians 2:23-4:10	These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. ...	addiction
0	Colossians 2:3	In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.	wisdom
0	Colossians 2:6-7	Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.	gratitude
0	Colossians 2:7	Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.	gratitude
0	Colossians 2:8	See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ.	blameless,idols,learning,mind,widows,wisdom
0	Colossians 2:9	For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,	comforter,jesus
0	Colossians 3:1	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.	eternal-life,seeking
0	Colossians 3:10	And have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.	transformation
0	Colossians 3:11	Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all.	church,slavery
0	Colossians 3:12	Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience,	clothing,compassion,fruitfulness,gentleness,humility,mercy,patience,slavery,thoughts
0	Colossians 3:1-2	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.	thoughts
0	Colossians 3:12-13	Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.	anger,clothing,compassion,forgiveness,patience
0	Colossians 3:12-14	Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.	friendship,gentleness
0	Colossians 3:12-15	Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful.	gentleness
0	Colossians 3:1-25	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. ...	conversion,encouragement,humility,idols,peace,relationships,seeking,sin,singing
0	Colossians 3:13	Bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.	blameless,community,forgiveness,friendship,mercy,neighbor,patience,peace,reconciliation
0	Colossians 3:14	And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.	community,love,marriage,relationships
0	Colossians 3:1-4:18	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. ...	family,transformation,worrying
0	Colossians 3:14-16	And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.	christmas
0	Colossians 3:14-17	And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.	worship
0	Colossians 3:15	And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful.	church,encouragement,gratitude,peace,worrying
0	Colossians 3:15-17	And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.	gratitude
0	Colossians 3:15-20	And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. ...	gratitude
0	Colossians 3:16	Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.	church,fruitfulness,gratitude,learning,praise,self-control,singing,thoughts,wisdom,the-word,worship
0	Colossians 3:17	And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.	gratitude,seeking,serving,spirit,the-word,work
0	Colossians 3:1-7	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. ...	heaven
0	Colossians 3:18	Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.	marriage
0	Colossians 3:18-19	Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.	humility,marriage,relationships
0	Colossians 3:18-24	Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. ...	fruitfulness
0	Colossians 3:19	Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.	marriage,relationships
0	Colossians 3:2	Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.	mind,thoughts,the-word,world
0	Colossians 3:20	Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord.	children,family,learning,obedience
0	Colossians 3:21	Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged.	children
0	Colossians 3:22	Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.	heart,obedience,slavery
0	Colossians 3:22-24	Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.	slavery,work
0	Colossians 3:23	Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men,	conversion,debt,equipment,learning,life,money,planning,reliability,seeking,work
0	Colossians 3:23-24	Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.	community,life,reward,serving,work
0	Colossians 3:23-25	Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.	work
0	Colossians 3:24	Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.	reward
0	Colossians 3:25	For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.	punishment
0	Colossians 3:2-5	Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.	thoughts
0	Colossians 3:2-6	Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming.	idols
0	Colossians 3:3	For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.	christmas
0	Colossians 3:3-4	For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.	life
0	Colossians 3:4	When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.	second-coming
0	Colossians 3:5	Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.	greed,idols,transformation
0	Colossians 3:6	On account of these the wrath of God is coming.	anger
0	Colossians 3:8	But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.	anger,clothing,gossip
0	Colossians 3:9	Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices	honesty,lying
0	Colossians 3:9-10	Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.	clothing,honesty,lying,reliability
0	Colossians 4:1	Masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.	slavery
0	Colossians 4:1-18	Masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison&mdash; that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. ...	conversion,seeking
0	Colossians 4:2	Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving.	gratitude,prayer
0	Colossians 4:2-6	Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison&mdash; that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.	evangelism,grace
0	Colossians 4:5	Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time.	work
0	Colossians 4:5-6	Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.	gentleness,wisdom
0	Colossians 4:6	Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.	calling,gossip,speaking,understanding
0	Daniel 1:1-21	In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God. And he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his god. Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility, youths without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace, and to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans. The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, and of the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king. ...	food
0	Daniel 1:16	So the steward took away their food and the wine they were to drink, and gave them vegetables.	wine
0	Daniel 1:17	As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.	learning,wisdom
0	Daniel 1:4	Youths without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace, and to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans.	beauty
0	Daniel 1:5	The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, and of the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king.	wine
0	Daniel 1:8	But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food, or with the wine that he drank. Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself.	health,wine
0	Daniel 10:12	Then he said to me, &ldquo;Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and humbled yourself before your God, your words have been heard, and I have come because of your words.	awe
0	Daniel 10:13	The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia,	angels
0	Daniel 10:1-3	In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar. And the word was true, and it was a great conflict. And he understood the word and had understanding of the vision. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks. I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three weeks.	fasting
0	Daniel 10:19	And he said, &ldquo;O man greatly loved, fear not, peace be with you; be strong and of good courage.&rdquo; And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, &ldquo;Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me.&rdquo;	courage,strength
0	Daniel 10:21	But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth: there is none who contends by my side against these except Michael, your prince.	truth
0	Daniel 10:2-3	In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks. I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three weeks.	fasting
0	Daniel 10:3	I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three weeks.	fasting,food,wine
0	Daniel 11:25	And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. And the king of the south shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him.	courage
0	Daniel 12:1	&ldquo;At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince who has charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the book.	angels,mediator,protection
0	Daniel 12:2	And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.	ascension,death,eternal-life,hell,judgment,resurrection
0	Daniel 12:2-3	And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above; and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever.	calling
0	Daniel 12:3	And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above; and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever.	evangelism,light,righteousness,wisdom
0	Daniel 2:20	Daniel answered and said: &ldquo;Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might.	wisdom
0	Daniel 2:22	He reveals deep and hidden things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him.	light
0	Daniel 2:23	To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, for you have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter.&rdquo;	praise,wisdom
0	Daniel 2:44	And in the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever,	kingdom
0	Daniel 2:47	The king answered and said to Daniel, &ldquo;Truly, your God is God of gods and Lord of kings, and a revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Daniel 3:1-30	King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits and its breadth six cubits. He set it up on the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. Then the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered for the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And the herald proclaimed aloud, &ldquo;You are commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages, that when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up. ...	dependence
0	Daniel 3:16-18	Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, &ldquo;O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If this be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. But if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up.&rdquo;	courage
0	Daniel 3:28	Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, &ldquo;Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel and delivered his servants, who trusted in him, and set aside the king's command, and yielded up their bodies rather than serve and worship any god except their own God.	miracles
0	Daniel 3:29	Therefore I make a decree: Any people, nation, or language that speaks anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be torn limb from limb, and their houses laid in ruins, for there is no other god who is able to rescue in this way.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Daniel 4:1-37	King Nebuchadnezzar to all peoples, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you! It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has done for me. How great are his signs, how mighty his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures from generation to generation.  I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and prospering in my palace. I saw a dream that made me afraid. As I lay in bed the fancies and the visions of my head alarmed me. ...	beauty
0	Daniel 4:37	Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those who walk in pride he is able to humble.	humility,praise,pride,worship
0	Daniel 5:20	But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was brought down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him.	pride
0	Daniel 5:22-24	And you his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this, but you have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven. And the vessels of his house have been brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them. And you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know, but the God in whose hand is your breath, and whose are all your ways, you have not honored. &ldquo;Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed.	idols
0	Daniel 5:7	The king called loudly to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers. The king declared to the wise men of Babylon, &ldquo;Whoever reads this writing, and shows me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around his neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.&rdquo;	clothing
0	Daniel 6:18	Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; no diversions were brought to him, and sleep fled from him.	fasting
0	Daniel 6:22	My God sent his angel and shut the lions' mouths, and they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless before him; and also before you, O king, I have done no harm.&rdquo;	angels
0	Daniel 7:10	A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court sat in judgment, and the books were opened.	angels
0	Daniel 7:1-28	In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, &ldquo;I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea. And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another. The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I looked its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it. And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth; and it was told, &lsquo;Arise, devour much flesh.&rsquo; ...	equipment,prophecy
0	Daniel 7:13-14	&ldquo;I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed.	messiah,second-coming
0	Daniel 7:27	And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High; their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey them.&rsquo;	kingdom
0	Daniel 7:9-10	&ldquo;As I looked, thrones were placed, and the Ancient of Days took his seat; his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames; its wheels were burning fire. A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court sat in judgment, and the books were opened.	judgment
0	Daniel 9:1-27	In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, by descent a Mede, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans&mdash; in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that, according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely, seventy years. Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession, saying, &ldquo;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules. ...	addiction
0	Daniel 9:13	As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us; yet we have not entreated the favor of the Lord our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth.	truth
0	Daniel 9:18-27	O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.&rdquo; While I was speaking and praying, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my plea before the Lord my God for the holy hill of my God, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the first, came to me in swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice. He made me understand, speaking with me and saying, &ldquo;O Daniel, I have now come out to give you insight and understanding. ...	christmas
0	Daniel 9:21	While I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the first, came to me in swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice.	angels
0	Daniel 9:24	&ldquo;Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place.	messiah,reconciliation,righteousness
0	Daniel 9:24-27	&ldquo;Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place. Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem to the coming of an anointed one, a prince, there shall be seven weeks. Then for sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with squares and moat, but in a troubled time. And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed. And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, and for half of the week he shall put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate, until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Daniel 9:26	And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed.	messiah
0	Daniel 9:27	And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, and for half of the week he shall put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate, until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator.&rdquo;	crucifixion,sacrifice,second-coming
0	Daniel 9:3	Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.	fasting
0	Daniel 9:3-5	Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession, saying, &ldquo;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules.	fasting
0	Daniel 9:9	To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him	forgiveness
0	Deuteronomy 1:17	You shall not be partial in judgment. You shall hear the small and the great alike. You shall not be intimidated by anyone, for the judgment is God's. And the case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.&rsquo;	judgment
0	Deuteronomy 10:12-13	&ldquo;And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord, which I am commanding you today for your good?	law
0	Deuteronomy 10:14	Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it.	creation
0	Deuteronomy 10:17-19	For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe. He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. Love the sojourner, therefore, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.	widows
0	Deuteronomy 10:18	He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 10:21	He is your praise. He is your God, who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your eyes have seen.	miracles,praise
0	Deuteronomy 11:16	Take care lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them;	worship
0	Deuteronomy 11:19	You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.	children
0	Deuteronomy 11:26-28	&ldquo;See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse: the blessing, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way that I am commanding you today, to go after other gods that you have not known.	obedience
0	Deuteronomy 12:10	But when you go over the Jordan and live in the land that the Lord your God is giving you to inherit, and when he gives you rest from all your enemies around, so that you live in safety,	safety
0	Deuteronomy 12:16	Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the earth like water.	blood
0	Deuteronomy 12:23	Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.	blood
0	Deuteronomy 13:14	Then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it be true and certain that such an abomination has been done among you,	gossip
0	Deuteronomy 13:17	None of the devoted things shall stick to your hand, that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of his anger and show you mercy and have compassion on you and multiply you, as he swore to your fathers,	compassion
0	Deuteronomy 13:4	You shall walk after the Lord your God and fear him and keep his commandments and obey his voice, and you shall serve him and hold fast to him.	listening,serving
0	Deuteronomy 13:5	But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has taught rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you out of the house of slavery, to make you leave the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 14:1-29	&ldquo;You are the sons of the Lord your God. You shall not cut yourselves or make any baldness on your foreheads for the dead. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God, and the Lord has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. &ldquo;You shall not eat any abomination. These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, and the mountain sheep. ...	food
0	Deuteronomy 14:22-23	&ldquo;You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year. And before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always.	giving
0	Deuteronomy 14:22-26	&ldquo;You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year. And before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the Lord your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses, to set his name there, then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the Lord your God chooses and spend the money for whatever you desire&mdash;oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your household.	equipment
0	Deuteronomy 14:22-29	&ldquo;You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year. And before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the Lord your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses, to set his name there, then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the Lord your God chooses and spend the money for whatever you desire&mdash;oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your household. ...	equipment,receiving
0	Deuteronomy 14:23-16:20	And before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the Lord your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses, to set his name there, then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the Lord your God chooses and spend the money for whatever you desire&mdash;oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your household. And you shall not neglect the Levite who is within your towns, for he has no portion or inheritance with you. ...	poverty
0	Deuteronomy 14:26	And spend the money for whatever you desire&mdash;oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your household.	wine
0	Deuteronomy 14:28-29	&ldquo;At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and lay it up within your towns. And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do.	giving,orphans,widows
0	Deuteronomy 14:29	And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 15:10	You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him, because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake.	generosity,giving,work
0	Deuteronomy 15:11	For there will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, &lsquo;You shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in your land.&rsquo;	poverty,serving
0	Deuteronomy 15:1-11	&ldquo;At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release. And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor. He shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the Lord's release has been proclaimed. Of a foreigner you may exact it, but whatever of yours is with your brother your hand shall release. But there will be no poor among you; for the Lord will bless you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess&mdash; if only you will strictly obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all this commandment that I command you today. ...	debt
0	Deuteronomy 15:12	&ldquo;If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 15:1-2	&ldquo;At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release. And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor. He shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the Lord's release has been proclaimed.	debt
0	Deuteronomy 15:12-15	&ldquo;If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed. You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress. As the Lord your God has blessed you, you shall give to him. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you; therefore I command you this today.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 15:12-18	&ldquo;If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed. You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress. As the Lord your God has blessed you, you shall give to him. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you; therefore I command you this today. But if he says to you, &lsquo;I will not go out from you,&rsquo; because he loves you and your household, since he is well-off with you, ...	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 15:16-17	But if he says to you, &lsquo;I will not go out from you,&rsquo; because he loves you and your household, since he is well-off with you, then you shall take an awl, and put it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your slave forever. And to your female slave you shall do the same.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 15:23	Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.	blood
0	Deuteronomy 15:6	For the Lord your God will bless you, as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow, and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.	debt
0	Deuteronomy 15:7-11	&ldquo;If among you, one of your brothers should become poor, in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be. Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart and you say, &lsquo;The seventh year, the year of release is near,&rsquo; and your eye look grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of sin. You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him, because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. For there will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, &lsquo;You shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in your land.&rsquo;	widows
0	Deuteronomy 15:7-8	&ldquo;If among you, one of your brothers should become poor, in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be.	generosity,giving
0	Deuteronomy 15:9	Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart and you say, &lsquo;The seventh year, the year of release is near,&rsquo; and your eye look grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of sin.	debt
0	Deuteronomy 16:10	Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the Lord your God with the tribute of a freewill offering from your hand, which you shall give as the Lord your God blesses you.	pentecost
0	Deuteronomy 16:11	And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you, at the place that the Lord your God will choose, to make his name dwell there.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 16:13-15	&ldquo;You shall keep the Feast of Booths seven days, when you have gathered in the produce from your threshing floor and your winepress. You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns. For seven days you shall keep the feast to the Lord your God at the place that the Lord will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful.	harvest
0	Deuteronomy 16:14	You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 16:14-15	You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns. For seven days you shall keep the feast to the Lord your God at the place that the Lord will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful.	harvest
0	Deuteronomy 16:16	&ldquo;Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Booths. They shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed.	harvest,pentecost
0	Deuteronomy 16:17	Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you.	compassion,generosity,giving,money
0	Deuteronomy 16:19-20	You shall not pervert justice. You shall not show partiality, and you shall not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous. Justice, and only justice, you shall follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the Lord your God is giving you.	honesty
0	Deuteronomy 16:9	&ldquo;You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to the standing grain.	harvest,pentecost
0	Deuteronomy 16:9-11	&ldquo;You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to the standing grain. Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the Lord your God with the tribute of a freewill offering from your hand, which you shall give as the Lord your God blesses you. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you, at the place that the Lord your God will choose, to make his name dwell there.	pentecost
0	Deuteronomy 17:12	The man who acts presumptuously by not obeying the priest who stands to minister there before the Lord your God, or the judge, that man shall die. So you shall purge the evil from Israel.	evil
0	Deuteronomy 17:7	The hand of the witnesses shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.	evil
0	Deuteronomy 18:15	&ldquo;The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers&mdash;it is to him you shall listen&mdash;	almighty,messiah
0	Deuteronomy 18:15-19	&ldquo;The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers&mdash;it is to him you shall listen&mdash; just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, &lsquo;Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God or see this great fire any more, lest I die.&rsquo; And the Lord said to me, &lsquo;They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.	prophecy
0	Deuteronomy 18:18	I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him.	almighty,comforter
0	Deuteronomy 18:18-22	I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.&rsquo; And if you say in your heart, &lsquo;How may we know the word that the Lord has not spoken?&rsquo;&mdash; when a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true, that is a word that the Lord has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him.	prophecy
0	Deuteronomy 18:9-12	&ldquo;When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of those nations. There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or his daughter as an offering, anyone who practices divination or tells fortunes or interprets omens, or a sorcerer or a charmer or a medium or a necromancer or one who inquires of the dead, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord. And because of these abominations the Lord your God is driving them out before you.	transformation
0	Deuteronomy 18:9-20	&ldquo;When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of those nations. There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or his daughter as an offering, anyone who practices divination or tells fortunes or interprets omens, or a sorcerer or a charmer or a medium or a necromancer or one who inquires of the dead, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord. And because of these abominations the Lord your God is driving them out before you. You shall be blameless before the Lord your God, ...	christmas
0	Deuteronomy 20:1	&ldquo;When you go out to war against your enemies, and see horses and chariots and an army larger than your own, you shall not be afraid of them, for the Lord your God is with you, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.	fear
0	Deuteronomy 20:14	But the women and the little ones, the livestock, and everything else in the city, all its spoil, you shall take as plunder for yourselves. And you shall enjoy the spoil of your enemies, which the Lord your God has given you.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 20:4	For the Lord your God is he who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies, to give you the victory.&rsquo;	strength
0	Deuteronomy 21:10-14	&ldquo;When you go out to war against your enemies, and the Lord your God gives them into your hand and you take them captive, and you see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you desire to take her to be your wife, and you bring her home to your house, she shall shave her head and pare her nails. And she shall take off the clothes in which she was captured and shall remain in your house and lament her father and her mother a full month. After that you may go in to her and be her husband, and she shall be your wife. But if you no longer delight in her, you shall let her go where she wants. But you shall not sell her for money, nor shall you treat her as a slave, since you have humiliated her.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 22:11	You shall not wear cloth of wool and linen mixed together.	clothing
0	Deuteronomy 22:5	&ldquo;A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord your God.	clothing
0	Deuteronomy 23:15	&ldquo;You shall not give up to his master a slave who has escaped from his master to you.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 23:15-16	&ldquo;You shall not give up to his master a slave who has escaped from his master to you. He shall dwell with you, in your midst, in the place that he shall choose within one of your towns, wherever it suits him. You shall not wrong him.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 23:17	&ldquo;None of the daughters of Israel shall be a cult prostitute, and none of the sons of Israel shall be a cult prostitute.	following
0	Deuteronomy 23:20	You may charge a foreigner interest, but you may not charge your brother interest, that the Lord your God may bless you in all that you undertake in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.	debt
0	Deuteronomy 24:1-26:19	&ldquo;When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, and she departs out of his house, and if she goes and becomes another man's wife, and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after she has been defiled, for that is an abomination before the Lord. And you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. &ldquo;When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken. ...	family
0	Deuteronomy 24:14	&ldquo;You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he is one of your brothers or one of the sojourners who are in your land within your towns.	work
0	Deuteronomy 24:17	&ldquo;You shall not pervert the justice due to the sojourner or to the fatherless, or take a widow's garment in pledge,	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 24:17-21	&ldquo;You shall not pervert the justice due to the sojourner or to the fatherless, or take a widow's garment in pledge, but you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you from there; therefore I command you to do this. &ldquo;When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over them again. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow. When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not strip it afterward. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 24:19	&ldquo;When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.	harvest
0	Deuteronomy 24:19-21	&ldquo;When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over them again. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow. When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not strip it afterward. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 24:5	&ldquo;When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken.	marriage,relationships
0	Deuteronomy 24:7	&ldquo;If a man is found stealing one of his brothers of the people of Israel, and if he treats him as a slave or sells him, then that thief shall die. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 25:13-16	&ldquo;You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small. You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small. A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are an abomination to the Lord your God.	honesty
0	Deuteronomy 26:1-11	&ldquo;When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance and have taken possession of it and live in it, you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you harvest from your land that the Lord your God is giving you, and you shall put it in a basket, and you shall go to the place that the Lord your God will choose, to make his name to dwell there. And you shall go to the priest who is in office at that time and say to him, &lsquo;I declare today to the Lord your God that I have come into the land that the Lord swore to our fathers to give us.&rsquo; Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the Lord your God. &ldquo;And you shall make response before the Lord your God, &lsquo;A wandering Aramean was my father. And he went down into Egypt and sojourned there, few in number, and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous. ...	gratitude
0	Deuteronomy 26:12-13	&ldquo;When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce in the third year, which is the year of tithing, giving it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your towns and be filled, then you shall say before the Lord your God, &lsquo;I have removed the sacred portion out of my house, and moreover, I have given it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all your commandment that you have commanded me. I have not transgressed any of your commandments, nor have I forgotten them.	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 27:15	&ldquo;&lsquo;Cursed be the man who makes a carved or cast metal image, an abomination to the Lord, a thing made by the hands of a craftsman, and sets it up in secret.&rsquo; And all the people shall answer and say, &lsquo;Amen.&rsquo;	idols
0	Deuteronomy 27:19	&ldquo;&lsquo;Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.&rsquo; And all the people shall say, &lsquo;Amen.&rsquo;	orphans
0	Deuteronomy 28:1	&ldquo;And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth.	debt,law
0	Deuteronomy 28:10-11	And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the Lord, and they shall be afraid of you. And the Lord will make you abound in prosperity, in the fruit of your womb and in the fruit of your livestock and in the fruit of your ground, within the land that the Lord swore to your fathers to give you.	fruitfulness
0	Deuteronomy 28:1-14	&ldquo;And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you obey the voice of the Lord your God. Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock. Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. ...	blessing
0	Deuteronomy 28:12	The Lord will open to you his good treasury, the heavens, to give the rain to your land in its season and to bless all the work of your hands. And you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow.	debt,money
0	Deuteronomy 28:13	And the Lord will make you the head and not the tail, and you shall only go up and not down, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, being careful to do them,	debt
0	Deuteronomy 28:1-68	&ldquo;And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you obey the voice of the Lord your God. Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock. Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. ...	blessing,equipment,faithfulness,fasting,mind,obedience,pentecost,planning,poverty,protection,reward,self-control
0	Deuteronomy 28:43-45	The sojourner who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall come down lower and lower. He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him. He shall be the head, and you shall be the tail. &ldquo;All these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you till you are destroyed, because you did not obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that he commanded you.	debt
0	Deuteronomy 28:47	Because you did not serve the Lord your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things,	gratitude
0	Deuteronomy 28:47-48	Because you did not serve the Lord your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things, therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the Lord will send against you, in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and lacking everything. And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you.	faithfulness,materialism
0	Deuteronomy 28:54	The man who is the most tender and refined among you will begrudge food to his brother, to the wife he embraces, and to the last of the children whom he has left,	compassion
0	Deuteronomy 29:6-13	You have not eaten bread, and you have not drunk wine or strong drink, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out against us to battle, but we defeated them. We took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites. Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. &ldquo;You are standing today all of you before the Lord your God: the heads of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, all the men of Israel, ...	work
0	Deuteronomy 3:22	You shall not fear them, for it is the Lord your God who fights for you.&rsquo;	fear,worrying
0	Deuteronomy 30:1-3	&ldquo;And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the nations where the Lord your God has driven you, and return to the Lord your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you today, with all your heart and with all your soul, then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and he will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you.	children
0	Deuteronomy 30:15-16	&ldquo;See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil. If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.	sin
0	Deuteronomy 30:16	If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.	law
0	Deuteronomy 30:19-20	I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live, loving the Lord your God, obeying his voice and holding fast to him, for he is your life and length of days, that you may dwell in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.&rdquo;	life
0	Deuteronomy 30:2-34:10	And return to the Lord your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you today, with all your heart and with all your soul, then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and he will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you. If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there the Lord your God will gather you, and from there he will take you. And the Lord your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, that you may possess it. And he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers. And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. ...	addiction
0	Deuteronomy 30:3	Then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and he will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you.	compassion
0	Deuteronomy 31:13	And that their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God, as long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess.&rdquo;	learning
0	Deuteronomy 31:1-30	So Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel. And he said to them, &ldquo;I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The Lord has said to me, &lsquo;You shall not go over this Jordan.&rsquo; The Lord your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, so that you shall dispossess them, and Joshua will go over at your head, as the Lord has spoken. And the Lord will do to them as he did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, when he destroyed them. And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. ...	worrying
0	Deuteronomy 31:1-32:52	So Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel. And he said to them, &ldquo;I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The Lord has said to me, &lsquo;You shall not go over this Jordan.&rsquo; The Lord your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, so that you shall dispossess them, and Joshua will go over at your head, as the Lord has spoken. And the Lord will do to them as he did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, when he destroyed them. And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. ...	courage,safety
0	Deuteronomy 31:23	And the Lord commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, &ldquo;Be strong and courageous, for you shall bring the people of Israel into the land that I swore to give them. I will be with you.&rdquo;	courage
0	Deuteronomy 31:6	Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you.&rdquo;	courage,encouragement,fear,god,hope,life,overcoming,promises,protection,sadness,sickness,strength,weakness
0	Deuteronomy 31:8	It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you; he will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.&rdquo;	covenant,encouragement,fear,sadness
0	Deuteronomy 32:2	May my teaching drop as the rain, my speech distill as the dew, like gentle rain upon the tender grass, and like showers upon the herb.	gentleness
0	Deuteronomy 32:39	&ldquo;&lsquo;See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god beside me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand.	healing
0	Deuteronomy 32:4	&ldquo;The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he.	almighty,truth
0	Deuteronomy 33:27	The eternal God is your dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out the enemy before you and said, Destroy.	god
0	Deuteronomy 34:1-12	Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is opposite Jericho. And the Lord showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan, all Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the western sea, the Negeb, and the Plain, that is, the Valley of Jericho the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar. And the Lord said to him, &ldquo;This is the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, &lsquo;I will give it to your offspring.&rsquo; I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there.&rdquo; So Moses the servant of the Lord died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord, ...	dependence
0	Deuteronomy 4:1-13:18	&ldquo;And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the rules that I am teaching you, and do them, that you may live, and go in and take possession of the land that the Lord, the God of your fathers, is giving you. You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you. Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baal-peor, for the Lord your God destroyed from among you all the men who followed the Baal of Peor. But you who held fast to the Lord your God are all alive today. See, I have taught you statutes and rules, as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. ...	covenant
0	Deuteronomy 4:13	And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.	covenant
0	Deuteronomy 4:15-16	&ldquo;Therefore watch yourselves very carefully. Since you saw no form on the day that the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire, beware lest you act corruptly by making a carved image for yourselves, in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,	idols
0	Deuteronomy 4:2	You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you.	faithfulness
0	Deuteronomy 4:29	But from there you will seek the Lord your God and you will find him, if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.	seeking
0	Deuteronomy 4:29-31	But from there you will seek the Lord your God and you will find him, if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in tribulation, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, you will return to the Lord your God and obey his voice. For the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not leave you or destroy you or forget the covenant with your fathers that he swore to them.	repentance
0	Deuteronomy 4:31	For the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not leave you or destroy you or forget the covenant with your fathers that he swore to them.	mercy
0	Deuteronomy 4:39-40	Know therefore today, and lay it to your heart, that the Lord is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is no other. Therefore you shall keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land that the Lord your God is giving you for all time.&rdquo;	obedience
0	Deuteronomy 4:6-6:5	Keep them and do them, for that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, &lsquo;Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.&rsquo; For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as the Lord our God is to us, whenever we call upon him? And what great nation is there, that has statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I set before you today? &ldquo;Only take care, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. Make them known to your children and your children's children&mdash; how on the day that you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, the Lord said to me, &lsquo;Gather the people to me, that I may let them hear my words, so that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children so.&rsquo; ...	worrying
0	Deuteronomy 4:9	&ldquo;Only take care, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. Make them known to your children and your children's children&mdash;	children
0	Deuteronomy 5:1	And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, &ldquo;Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the rules that I speak in your hearing today, and you shall learn them and be careful to do them.	learning
0	Deuteronomy 5:11	&ldquo;&lsquo;You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.	punishment
0	Deuteronomy 5:1-11:32	And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, &ldquo;Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the rules that I speak in your hearing today, and you shall learn them and be careful to do them. The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. Not with our fathers did the Lord make this covenant, but with us, who are all of us here alive today. The Lord spoke with you face to face at the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, while I stood between the Lord and you at that time, to declare to you the word of the Lord. For you were afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up into the mountain. He said: ...	punishment
0	Deuteronomy 5:12-14	&ldquo;&lsquo;Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you.	rest
0	Deuteronomy 5:12-15	&ldquo;&lsquo;Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.	rest,sabbath
0	Deuteronomy 5:15	You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.	slavery
0	Deuteronomy 5:20	&ldquo;&lsquo;And you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.	lying
0	Deuteronomy 5:7-9	&ldquo;&lsquo;You shall have no other gods before me. &ldquo;&lsquo;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me,	idols
0	Deuteronomy 6:1-25	&ldquo;Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the rules that the Lord your God commanded me to teach you, that you may do them in the land to which you are going over, to possess it, that you may fear the Lord your God, you and your son and your son's son, by keeping all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, all the days of your life, and that your days may be long. Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey. &ldquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. ...	family
0	Deuteronomy 6:13	It is the Lord your God you shall fear. Him you shall serve and by his name you shall swear.	confession
0	Deuteronomy 6:16	&ldquo;You shall not put the Lord your God to the test, as you tested him at Massah.	temptation
0	Deuteronomy 6:18	And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that it may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers	obedience
0	Deuteronomy 6:25	And it will be righteousness for us, if we are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God, as he has commanded us.&rsquo;	righteousness
0	Deuteronomy 6:4	&ldquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.	redeemer
0	Deuteronomy 6:5	You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.	heart,soul,strength
0	Deuteronomy 6:6-7	And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.	children,encouragement,law,the-word
0	Deuteronomy 6:7	You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.	children
0	Deuteronomy 7:12-15	&ldquo;And because you listen to these rules and keep and do them, the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the steadfast love that he swore to your fathers. He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you. You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be male or female barren among you or among your livestock. And the Lord will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you knew, will he inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you.	health
0	Deuteronomy 7:13-8:1	He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you. You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be male or female barren among you or among your livestock. And the Lord will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you knew, will he inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you. And you shall consume all the peoples that the Lord your God will give over to you. Your eye shall not pity them, neither shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you. &ldquo;If you say in your heart, &lsquo;These nations are greater than I. How can I dispossess them?&rsquo; ...	family
0	Deuteronomy 7:15	And the Lord will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you knew, will he inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you.	healing,health,sickness
0	Deuteronomy 7:17-8:18	&ldquo;If you say in your heart, &lsquo;These nations are greater than I. How can I dispossess them?&rsquo; you shall not be afraid of them but you shall remember what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt, the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, by which the Lord your God brought you out. So will the Lord your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid. Moreover, the Lord your God will send hornets among them, until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed. You shall not be in dread of them, for the Lord your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God. ...	worrying
0	Deuteronomy 7:1-9:29	&ldquo;When the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, and clears away many nations before you, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than yourselves, and when the Lord your God gives them over to you, and you defeat them, then you must devote them to complete destruction. You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them. You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons or taking their daughters for your sons, for they would turn away your sons from following me, to serve other gods. Then the anger of the Lord would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly. But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and chop down their Asherim and burn their carved images with fire. ...	covenant
0	Deuteronomy 7:2	And when the Lord your God gives them over to you, and you defeat them, then you must devote them to complete destruction. You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them.	mercy
0	Deuteronomy 7:21	You shall not be in dread of them, for the Lord your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God.	fear
0	Deuteronomy 7:22-26	The Lord your God will clear away these nations before you little by little. You may not make an end of them at once, lest the wild beasts grow too numerous for you. But the Lord your God will give them over to you and throw them into great confusion, until they are destroyed. And he will give their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name perish from under heaven. No one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them. The carved images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them or take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it, for it is an abomination to the Lord your God. And you shall not bring an abominable thing into your house and become devoted to destruction like it. You shall utterly detest and abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction.	materialism
0	Deuteronomy 7:25	The carved images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them or take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it, for it is an abomination to the Lord your God.	idols
0	Deuteronomy 7:9	Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations,	covenant,faithfulness,god,love,mercy,reliability
0	Deuteronomy 8:1-11:32	&ldquo;The whole commandment that I command you today you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Your clothing did not wear out on you and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that, as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you. ...	food,work
0	Deuteronomy 8:11-14	&ldquo;Take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command you today, lest, when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply and your silver and gold is multiplied and all that you have is multiplied, then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,	pride
0	Deuteronomy 8:14	Then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,	pride
0	Deuteronomy 8:18	You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers, as it is this day.	contentment,generosity,giving,money,work
0	Deuteronomy 8:2-3	And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord.	dependence,humility
0	Deuteronomy 8:3	And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord.	bread,suffering,the-word
0	Deuteronomy 8:5	Know then in your heart that, as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you.	punishment
0	Deuteronomy 9:18	Then I lay prostrate before the Lord as before, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all the sin that you had committed, in doing what was evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger.	fasting
0	Ecclesiastes 1:1-18	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Vanity of vanities, says the Preacher, vanity of vanities! All is vanity. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? A generation goes, and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. The sun rises, and the sun goes down, and hastens to the place where it rises. ...	desires
0	Ecclesiastes 1:15-2:1	What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. I said in my heart, &ldquo;I have acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me, and my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.&rdquo; And I applied my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also is but a striving after wind. For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. I said in my heart, &ldquo;Come now, I will test you with pleasure; enjoy yourself.&rdquo; But behold, this also was vanity.	christmas,easter
0	Ecclesiastes 1:18	For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.	idols,mind,worrying
0	Ecclesiastes 10:12	The words of a wise man's mouth win him favor, but the lips of a fool consume him.	speaking,wisdom
0	Ecclesiastes 10:1-20	Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a stench; so a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor. A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, but a fool's heart to the left. Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense, and he says to everyone that he is a fool. If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses to rest. There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were an error proceeding from the ruler: ...	awe
0	Ecclesiastes 10:14	A fool multiplies words, though no man knows what is to be, and who can tell him what will be after him?	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 10:20	Even in your thoughts, do not curse the king, nor in your bedroom curse the rich, for a bird of the air will carry your voice, or some winged creature tell the matter.	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 10:4	If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses to rest.	gentleness
0	Ecclesiastes 11:1	Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days.	bread
0	Ecclesiastes 11:10	Remove vexation from your heart, and put away pain from your body, for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.	worrying
0	Ecclesiastes 11:2	Give a portion to seven, or even to eight, for you know not what disaster may happen on earth.	money,planning
0	Ecclesiastes 11:5	As you do not know the way the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything.	understanding
0	Ecclesiastes 12:1	Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come and the years draw near of which you will say, &ldquo;I have no pleasure in them&rdquo;;	children
0	Ecclesiastes 12:1-14	Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come and the years draw near of which you will say, &ldquo;I have no pleasure in them&rdquo;; before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened and the clouds return after the rain, in the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men are bent, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those who look through the windows are dimmed, and the doors on the street are shut&mdash;when the sound of the grinding is low, and one rises up at the sound of a bird, and all the daughters of song are brought low&mdash; they are afraid also of what is high, and terrors are in the way; the almond tree blossoms, the grasshopper drags itself along, and desire fails, because man is going to his eternal home, and the mourners go about the streets&mdash; ...	materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 12:12	My son, beware of anything beyond these. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	learning
0	Ecclesiastes 12:13	The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.	law,materialism,obedience
0	Ecclesiastes 12:14	For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil.	judgment
0	Ecclesiastes 12:7	And the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.	death,soul
0	Ecclesiastes 12:9-11	Besides being wise, the Preacher also taught the people knowledge, weighing and studying and arranging many proverbs with great care. The Preacher sought to find words of delight, and uprightly he wrote words of truth. The words of the wise are like goads, and like nails firmly fixed are the collected sayings; they are given by one Shepherd.	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 2:10	And whatever my eyes desired I did not keep from them. I kept my heart from no pleasure, for my heart found pleasure in all my toil, and this was my reward for all my toil.	work
0	Ecclesiastes 2:11	Then I considered all that my hands had done and the toil I had expended in doing it, and behold, all was vanity and a striving after wind, and there was nothing to be gained under the sun.	materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 2:13	Then I saw that there is more gain in wisdom than in folly, as there is more gain in light than in darkness.	light
0	Ecclesiastes 2:24	There is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil. This also, I saw, is from the hand of God,	contentment,work
0	Ecclesiastes 2:26	For to the one who pleases him God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy, but to the sinner he has given the business of gathering and collecting, only to give to one who pleases God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	joy,wisdom
0	Ecclesiastes 3:1	For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven:	life,planning,sickness
0	Ecclesiastes 3:11	He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end.	beauty,god
0	Ecclesiastes 3:11-13	He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end. I perceived that there is nothing better for them than to be joyful and to do good as long as they live; also that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toil&mdash;this is God's gift to man.	world
0	Ecclesiastes 3:12	I perceived that there is nothing better for them than to be joyful and to do good as long as they live;	contentment
0	Ecclesiastes 3:12-13	I perceived that there is nothing better for them than to be joyful and to do good as long as they live; also that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toil&mdash;this is God's gift to man.	work
0	Ecclesiastes 3:1-22	For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted; a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; ...	harvest,understanding,work
0	Ecclesiastes 3:13	Also that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toil&mdash;this is God's gift to man.	contentment,work
0	Ecclesiastes 3:1-3	For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted; a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	encouragement,healing
0	Ecclesiastes 3:1-8	For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted; a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; ...	understanding
0	Ecclesiastes 3:2	A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted;	death
0	Ecclesiastes 3:22	So I saw that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his work, for that is his lot. Who can bring him to see what will be after him?	work
0	Ecclesiastes 3:7	A time to tear, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 3:8	A time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.	peace
0	Ecclesiastes 3:9	What gain has the worker from his toil?	materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 4:12	And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him&mdash;a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	friendship,marriage,relationships
0	Ecclesiastes 4:13-16	Better was a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice. For he went from prison to the throne, though in his own kingdom he had been born poor. I saw all the living who move about under the sun, along with that youth who was to stand in the king's place. There was no end of all the people, all of whom he led. Yet those who come later will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	idols
0	Ecclesiastes 4:6	Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind.	contentment,peace
0	Ecclesiastes 4:8	One person who has no other, either son or brother, yet there is no end to all his toil, and his eyes are never satisfied with riches, so that he never asks, &ldquo;For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure?&rdquo; This also is vanity and an unhappy business.	materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 4:9	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.	friendship,marriage,relationships,work
0	Ecclesiastes 4:9-10	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up!	friendship
0	Ecclesiastes 4:9-12	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up! Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone? And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him&mdash;a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	community,friendship,marriage,relationships
0	Ecclesiastes 4:9-13	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up! Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone? And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him&mdash;a threefold cord is not quickly broken. Better was a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice.	strength
0	Ecclesiastes 5:10	He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth with his income; this also is vanity.	contentment,debt,greed,materialism,money
0	Ecclesiastes 5:12	Sweet is the sleep of a laborer, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich will not let him sleep.	rest
0	Ecclesiastes 5:1-20	Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil.  Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in heaven and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few. For a dream comes with much business, and a fool's voice with many words. When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. ...	awe
0	Ecclesiastes 5:12-6:12	Sweet is the sleep of a laborer, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich will not let him sleep. There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches were kept by their owner to his hurt, and those riches were lost in a bad venture. And he is father of a son, but he has nothing in his hand. As he came from his mother's womb he shall go again, naked as he came, and shall take nothing for his toil that he may carry away in his hand. This also is a grievous evil: just as he came, so shall he go, and what gain is there to him who toils for the wind? ...	worrying
0	Ecclesiastes 5:15	As he came from his mother's womb he shall go again, naked as he came, and shall take nothing for his toil that he may carry away in his hand.	death,greed,materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 5:18-20	Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun the few days of his life that God has given him, for this is his lot. Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them, and to accept his lot and rejoice in his toil&mdash;this is the gift of God. For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with joy in his heart.	money,work
0	Ecclesiastes 5:2	Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in heaven and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few.	humility
0	Ecclesiastes 5:4	When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow.	debt
0	Ecclesiastes 5:5	It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay.	debt
0	Ecclesiastes 5:7	For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity; but God is the one you must fear.	awe
0	Ecclesiastes 6:7-7:9	All the toil of man is for his mouth, yet his appetite is not satisfied. For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And what does the poor man have who knows how to conduct himself before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the appetite: this also is vanity and a striving after wind. Whatever has come to be has already been named, and it is known what man is, and that he is not able to dispute with one stronger than he. The more words, the more vanity, and what is the advantage to man? ...	addiction
0	Ecclesiastes 6:7-9	All the toil of man is for his mouth, yet his appetite is not satisfied. For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And what does the poor man have who knows how to conduct himself before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the appetite: this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	contentment,food
0	Ecclesiastes 6:9	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the appetite: this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	christmas,contentment,gratitude,materialism
0	Ecclesiastes 7:1	A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of birth.	death
0	Ecclesiastes 7:12	For the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money, and the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.	money,understanding,wisdom
0	Ecclesiastes 7:13	Consider the work of God: who can make straight what he has made crooked?	creation
0	Ecclesiastes 7:20	Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins.	forgiveness,sin
0	Ecclesiastes 7:22	Your heart knows that many times you yourself have cursed others.	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 7:26	And I find something more bitter than death: the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and whose hands are fetters. He who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is taken by her.	temptation
0	Ecclesiastes 7:8	Better is the end of a thing than its beginning, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	patience,pride
0	Ecclesiastes 7:8-9	Better is the end of a thing than its beginning, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not quick in your spirit to become angry, for anger lodges in the bosom of fools.	patience
0	Ecclesiastes 7:9	Be not quick in your spirit to become angry, for anger lodges in the bosom of fools.	anger,overcoming,patience,self-control
0	Ecclesiastes 8:1	Who is like the wise? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.	understanding,wisdom
0	Ecclesiastes 8:11	Because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil.	punishment
0	Ecclesiastes 8:11-13	Because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil. Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and prolongs his life, yet I know that it will be well with those who fear God, because they fear before him. But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days like a shadow, because he does not fear before God.	punishment
0	Ecclesiastes 8:1-17	Who is like the wise? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his face is changed. I say: Keep the king's command, because of God's oath to him. Be not hasty to go from his presence. Do not take your stand in an evil cause, for he does whatever he pleases. For the word of the king is supreme, and who may say to him, &ldquo;What are you doing?&rdquo; Whoever keeps a command will know no evil thing, and the wise heart will know the proper time and the just way. ...	beauty
0	Ecclesiastes 8:15	And I commend joy, for man has no good thing under the sun but to eat and drink and be joyful, for this will go with him in his toil through the days of his life that God has given him under the sun.	contentment
0	Ecclesiastes 8:8	No man has power to retain the spirit, or power over the day of death. There is no discharge from war, nor will wickedness deliver those who are given to it.	death
0	Ecclesiastes 9:10	Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might, for there is no work or thought or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol, to which you are going.	death,hell,work
0	Ecclesiastes 9:1-18	But all this I laid to heart, examining it all, how the righteous and the wise and their deeds are in the hand of God. Whether it is love or hate, man does not know; both are before him. It is the same for all, since the same event happens to the righteous and the wicked, to the good and the evil, to the clean and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and him who does not sacrifice. As the good one is, so is the sinner, and he who swears is as he who shuns an oath. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that the same event happens to all. Also, the hearts of the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead. But he who is joined with all the living has hope, for a living dog is better than a dead lion. For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. ...	poverty
0	Ecclesiastes 9:16	But I say that wisdom is better than might, though the poor man's wisdom is despised and his words are not heard.	poverty
0	Ecclesiastes 9:17	The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools.	speaking
0	Ecclesiastes 9:3	This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that the same event happens to all. Also, the hearts of the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	heart
0	Ecclesiastes 9:5	For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten.	death,hell,valuable
0	Ecclesiastes 9:5-6	For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. Their love and their hate and their envy have already perished, and forever they have no more share in all that is done under the sun.	soul
0	Ecclesiastes 9:7	Go, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already approved what you do.	bread,food,joy,wine
0	Ecclesiastes 9:7-9	Go, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already approved what you do. Let your garments be always white. Let not oil be lacking on your head. Enjoy life with the wife whom you love, all the days of your vain life that he has given you under the sun, because that is your portion in life and in your toil at which you toil under the sun.	contentment
0	Ecclesiastes 9:9	Enjoy life with the wife whom you love, all the days of your vain life that he has given you under the sun, because that is your portion in life and in your toil at which you toil under the sun.	marriage
0	Ephesians 1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus:	mediator
0	Ephesians 1:11	In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,	planning
0	Ephesians 1:1-23	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, ...	grace,salvation
0	Ephesians 1:13	In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit,	blameless,comforter,gentleness,holy-spirit,salvation
0	Ephesians 1:13-14	In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.	pentecost,spirit,truth,valuable
0	Ephesians 1:15-16	For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers,	gratitude
0	Ephesians 1:16	I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers,	gratitude
0	Ephesians 1:16-18	I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,	gratitude
0	Ephesians 1:16-19	I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might	wisdom
0	Ephesians 1:17	That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him,	holy-spirit,understanding
0	Ephesians 1:17-19	That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might	understanding
0	Ephesians 1:17-21	That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come.	resurrection
0	Ephesians 1:18	Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,	calling,heaven,hope,light,understanding
0	Ephesians 1:18-23	Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, ...	kingdom
0	Ephesians 1:20	That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,	easter
0	Ephesians 1:20-21	That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come.	debt
0	Ephesians 1:22	And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church,	church
0	Ephesians 1:22-23	And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.	church
0	Ephesians 1:23	Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.	church
0	Ephesians 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places,	blameless,blessing,comforter,generosity,praise,valuable
0	Ephesians 1:3-10	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, ...	reconciliation
0	Ephesians 1:4	Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love	blameless,calling,holiness,purification,salvation,valuable
0	Ephesians 1:5	He predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,	family,orphans
0	Ephesians 1:6	To the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.	grace
0	Ephesians 1:7	In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,	blood,forgiveness,grace,rebirth,sin
0	Ephesians 2:1	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins	rebirth,valuable
0	Ephesians 2:10	For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.	beauty,body,calling,clothing,community,creation,evangelism,god,goodness,jesus,obedience,planning,purification,reward,salvation,serving,work
0	Ephesians 2:1-10	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash; ...	calling
0	Ephesians 2:12	Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.	covenant,hope
0	Ephesians 2:1-2	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash;	devil
0	Ephesians 2:1-22	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash; ...	grace,salvation
0	Ephesians 2:13	But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.	blood,reconciliation,transformation
0	Ephesians 2:1-3	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.	sin,world
0	Ephesians 2:13-15	But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace,	equipment
0	Ephesians 2:14	For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility	peace
0	Ephesians 2:15	By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace,	law
0	Ephesians 2:15-18	By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.	reconciliation
0	Ephesians 2:16	And might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.	reconciliation
0	Ephesians 2:1-9	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash; ...	mercy
0	Ephesians 2:19-22	So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.	church,pentecost
0	Ephesians 2:2	In which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&mdash;	dependence,devil
0	Ephesians 2:20-22	Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.	church
0	Ephesians 2:21	In whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord.	church
0	Ephesians 2:22	In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.	holy-spirit
0	Ephesians 2:3	Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.	mind
0	Ephesians 2:4	But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us,	mercy
0	Ephesians 2:4-5	But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash;	god,grace,love,mercy,neighbor
0	Ephesians 2:4-7	But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash; and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.	world
0	Ephesians 2:4-9	But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash; and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, ...	grace
0	Ephesians 2:5	Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&mdash;by grace you have been saved&mdash;	rebirth
0	Ephesians 2:8	For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,	dependence,faith,forgiveness,freedom,goodness,grace,law,learning,promises,purification,reward,salvation
0	Ephesians 2:8-10	For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.	rebirth
0	Ephesians 2:8-9	For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.	awe,baptism,calling,clothing,covenant,evangelism,faith,following,fruitfulness,goodness,grace,heaven,life,neighbor,pentecost,pride,purification,rebirth,repentance,reward,righteousness,sacrifice,salvation,savior
0	Ephesians 2:9	Not a result of works, so that no one may boast.	blameless
0	Ephesians 3:10	So that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places.	angels,church
0	Ephesians 3:12	In whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him.	freedom
0	Ephesians 3:1-21	For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles&mdash; assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. ...	grace
0	Ephesians 3:14-15	For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,	family
0	Ephesians 3:14-19	For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&mdash;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, ...	wisdom
0	Ephesians 3:15	From whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,	calling
0	Ephesians 3:16	That according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being,	spirit,strength,weakness
0	Ephesians 3:16-17	That according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&mdash;that you, being rooted and grounded in love,	faith
0	Ephesians 3:16-19	That according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&mdash;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.	promises
0	Ephesians 3:17-19	So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&mdash;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.	love
0	Ephesians 3:20	Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us,	blessing,god,praise,weakness
0	Ephesians 3:20-21	Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.	hope,strength,thoughts
0	Ephesians 3:5	Which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit.	holy-spirit
0	Ephesians 4:1	I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called,	calling
0	Ephesians 4:11	And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers,	blameless,calling,church,evangelism
0	Ephesians 4:11-12	And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,	equipment
0	Ephesians 4:11-13	And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,	church
0	Ephesians 4:11-16	And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, ...	calling
0	Ephesians 4:12	To equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,	church,evangelism
0	Ephesians 4:13	Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,	pentecost,sacrifice
0	Ephesians 4:1-3	I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.	calling,humility,patience,reconciliation
0	Ephesians 4:1-32	I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one Spirit&mdash;just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call&mdash; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, ...	anger,calling,spirit,transformation
0	Ephesians 4:15	Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ,	church,gentleness,honesty,lying,truth
0	Ephesians 4:15-16	Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.	community,lying
0	Ephesians 4:16	From whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.	church
0	Ephesians 4:1-6	I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one Spirit&mdash;just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call&mdash; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, ...	community,freedom,friendship
0	Ephesians 4:17-27	Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learned Christ!&mdash; assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus, ...	christmas
0	Ephesians 4:17-6:14	Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learned Christ!&mdash; assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus, ...	addiction
0	Ephesians 4:18	They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart.	heart,understanding
0	Ephesians 4:18-19	They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity.	greed
0	Ephesians 4:2	With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love,	family,gentleness,humility,love,marriage,patience,planning,relationships
0	Ephesians 4:20-24	But that is not the way you learned Christ!&mdash; assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus, to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.	holiness
0	Ephesians 4:21	Assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus,	truth
0	Ephesians 4:22	To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires,	baptism,clothing,conversion
0	Ephesians 4:22-24	To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.	clothing,desires,thoughts,transformation
0	Ephesians 4:22-32	To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, ...	thoughts
0	Ephesians 4:23	And to be renewed in the spirit of your minds,	mind,transformation
0	Ephesians 4:2-3	With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.	love,marriage,patience,planning,relationships
0	Ephesians 4:24	And to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.	holiness,transformation
0	Ephesians 4:25	Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.	church,gossip,honesty,lying,neighbor,speaking,truth
0	Ephesians 4:26	Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger,	anger,reconciliation,self-control
0	Ephesians 4:2-6	With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one Spirit&mdash;just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call&mdash; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.	community
0	Ephesians 4:26-27	Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil.	anger,devil,evil
0	Ephesians 4:26-31	Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. ...	anger
0	Ephesians 4:27	And give no opportunity to the devil.	devil,temptation
0	Ephesians 4:28	Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need.	harvest,honesty,neighbor,poverty,serving,work,world
0	Ephesians 4:29	Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear.	anger,community,encouragement,evil,goodness,gossip,neighbor,speaking,transformation
0	Ephesians 4:3	Eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.	community,peace
0	Ephesians 4:30	And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.	blameless,comforter,holy-spirit,spirit
0	Ephesians 4:31	Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice.	anger,forgiveness,gossip,reconciliation,speaking
0	Ephesians 4:31-32	Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.	anger,evil,forgiveness,honesty,humility
0	Ephesians 4:32	Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.	compassion,forgiveness,friendship,goodness,heart,love,marriage,reconciliation,relationships
0	Ephesians 4:4	There is one body and one Spirit&mdash;just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call&mdash;	calling,church,comforter,holy-spirit,hope
0	Ephesians 4:4-6	There is one body and one Spirit&mdash;just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call&mdash; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.	baptism
0	Ephesians 4:5	One Lord, one faith, one baptism,	baptism,blameless,comforter
0	Ephesians 4:6	One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.	comforter
0	Ephesians 4:7	But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift.	grace
0	Ephesians 4:8-10	Therefore it says, &ldquo;When he ascended on high he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men.&rdquo; (In saying, &ldquo;He ascended,&rdquo; what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.)	ascension
0	Ephesians 5:1	Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.	children,gentleness
0	Ephesians 5:11	Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them.	almighty,evil,gossip,light
0	Ephesians 5:11-12	Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret.	light
0	Ephesians 5:1-2	Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.	sacrifice
0	Ephesians 5:1-33	Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. ...	encouragement
0	Ephesians 5:14	For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, &ldquo;Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.&rdquo;	light
0	Ephesians 5:15	Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise,	safety
0	Ephesians 5:15-16	Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil.	life,mind,wisdom
0	Ephesians 5:15-17	Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.	planning,wisdom
0	Ephesians 5:16	Making the best use of the time, because the days are evil.	fear,pentecost
0	Ephesians 5:1-7	Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. ...	heaven
0	Ephesians 5:18	And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit,	dependence,health,self-control,wine
0	Ephesians 5:18-20	And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,	dependence,gratitude
0	Ephesians 5:18-21	And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.	community
0	Ephesians 5:19	Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart,	christmas,listening,praise,singing,worship
0	Ephesians 5:19-33	Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. ...	family
0	Ephesians 5:2	And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.	blameless,jesus,mind,sacrifice
0	Ephesians 5:20	Giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,	gratitude
0	Ephesians 5:21	Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.	marriage,relationships,selfishness
0	Ephesians 5:21-24	Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:22-23	Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:22-33	Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, ...	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:23	For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.	church
0	Ephesians 5:24	Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.	blameless
0	Ephesians 5:25	Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,	church,love,marriage,planning,relationships
0	Ephesians 5:25-26	Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,	purification
0	Ephesians 5:25-28	Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:25-33	Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, ...	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:26	That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,	baptism,purification
0	Ephesians 5:28	In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.	marriage,relationships
0	Ephesians 5:29	For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church,	neighbor
0	Ephesians 5:3	But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints.	greed,holiness
0	Ephesians 5:31	&ldquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Ephesians 5:32	This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.	relationships
0	Ephesians 5:33	However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband.	love,marriage,neighbor,relationships
0	Ephesians 5:4	Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving.	speaking
0	Ephesians 5:5	For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.	greed,idols,money
0	Ephesians 5:6	Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.	anger
0	Ephesians 5:8	For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light	blameless,light
0	Ephesians 5:8-10	For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true), and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.	kingdom
0	Ephesians 5:8-9	For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),	light
0	Ephesians 5:9	(for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),	fruitfulness,goodness,holy-spirit,truth
0	Ephesians 6:1	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.	children,obedience,self-control
0	Ephesians 6:10	Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.	blood,comforter,courage,seeking,strength,weakness
0	Ephesians 6:10-13	Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm.	transformation
0	Ephesians 6:10-18	Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, ...	courage,evil
0	Ephesians 6:10-20	Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, ...	protection
0	Ephesians 6:11	Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.	devil,evil,overcoming,protection,safety,temptation
0	Ephesians 6:11-12	Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.	devil
0	Ephesians 6:11-17	Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. ...	clothing
0	Ephesians 6:12	For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.	angels,awe,devil,evil,self-control
0	Ephesians 6:1-24	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. &ldquo;Honor your father and mother&rdquo; (this is the first commandment with a promise), &ldquo;that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.&rdquo; Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, ...	blameless,fruitfulness
0	Ephesians 6:1-3	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. &ldquo;Honor your father and mother&rdquo; (this is the first commandment with a promise), &ldquo;that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.&rdquo;	children,learning,obedience,relationships
0	Ephesians 6:13-17	Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,	temptation
0	Ephesians 6:14	Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,	truth
0	Ephesians 6:1-4	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. &ldquo;Honor your father and mother&rdquo; (this is the first commandment with a promise), &ldquo;that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.&rdquo; Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.	blameless,children,family,mind
0	Ephesians 6:16	In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one;	devil,faith
0	Ephesians 6:17	And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,	the-word
0	Ephesians 6:18	Praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,	prayer
0	Ephesians 6:4	Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.	anger,blameless,blood,children,encouragement,father,law,learning,punishment
0	Ephesians 6:5	Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ,	heart,slavery
0	Ephesians 6:5-8	Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free.	slavery,work
0	Ephesians 6:5-9	Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free. Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.	slavery
0	Ephesians 6:6	Not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,	heart,slavery
0	Ephesians 6:7	Rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man,	serving,work
0	Ephesians 6:8	Knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free.	reward,sadness
0	Ephesians 6:9	Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.	slavery
0	Esther 1:11	To bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown, in order to show the peoples and the princes her beauty, for she was lovely to look at.	beauty
0	Esther 1:8	And drinking was according to this edict: &ldquo;There is no compulsion.&rdquo; For the king had given orders to all the staff of his palace to do as each man desired.	wine
0	Esther 2:12	Now when the turn came for each young woman to go in to King Ahasuerus, after being twelve months under the regulations for the women, since this was the regular period of their beautifying, six months with oil of myrrh and six months with spices and ointments for women&mdash;	purification
0	Esther 2:1-23	After these things, when the anger of King Ahasuerus had abated, he remembered Vashti and what she had done and what had been decreed against her. Then the king's young men who attended him said, &ldquo;Let beautiful young virgins be sought out for the king. And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom to gather all the beautiful young virgins to the harem in Susa the capital, under custody of Hegai, the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the women. Let their cosmetics be given them. And let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti.&rdquo; This pleased the king, and he did so. Now there was a Jew in Susa the citadel whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, son of Shimei, son of Kish, a Benjaminite, ...	beauty
0	Esther 2:7	He was bringing up Hadassah, that is Esther, the daughter of his uncle, for she had neither father nor mother. The young woman had a beautiful figure and was lovely to look at, and when her father and her mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.	beauty,orphans
0	Esther 4:15-16	Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai, &ldquo;Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf, and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my young women will also fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is against the law, and if I perish, I perish.&rdquo;	courage,fasting
0	Esther 4:16	&ldquo;Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf, and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my young women will also fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is against the law, and if I perish, I perish.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Esther 4:3	And in every province, wherever the king's command and his decree reached, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting and weeping and lamenting, and many of them lay in sackcloth and ashes.	fasting
0	Esther 5:1-14	On the third day Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the king's palace, in front of the king's quarters, while the king was sitting on his royal throne inside the throne room opposite the entrance to the palace. And when the king saw Queen Esther standing in the court, she won favor in his sight, and he held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. Then Esther approached and touched the tip of the scepter. And the king said to her, &ldquo;What is it, Queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you, even to the half of my kingdom.&rdquo; And Esther said, &ldquo;If it please the king, let the king and Haman come today to a feast that I have prepared for the king.&rdquo; Then the king said, &ldquo;Bring Haman quickly, so that we may do as Esther has asked.&rdquo; So the king and Haman came to the feast that Esther had prepared. ...	calling,orphans
0	Esther 6:9-8:13	And let the robes and the horse be handed over to one of the king's most noble officials. Let them dress the man whom the king delights to honor, and let them lead him on the horse through the square of the city, proclaiming before him: &lsquo;Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.&rsquo;&rdquo; Then the king said to Haman, &ldquo;Hurry; take the robes and the horse, as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate. Leave out nothing that you have mentioned.&rdquo; So Haman took the robes and the horse, and he dressed Mordecai and led him through the square of the city, proclaiming before him, &ldquo;Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.&rdquo; Then Mordecai returned to the king's gate. But Haman hurried to his house, mourning and with his head covered. And Haman told his wife Zeresh and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise men and his wife Zeresh said to him, &ldquo;If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the Jewish people, you will not overcome him but will surely fall before him.&rdquo; ...	courage
0	Esther 8:17	And in every province and in every city, wherever the king's command and his edict reached, there was gladness and joy among the Jews, a feast and a holiday. And many from the peoples of the country declared themselves Jews, for fear of the Jews had fallen on them.	joy
0	Esther 9:22	As the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor.	christmas,poverty
0	Exodus 1:14-21	And made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field. In all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves. Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiphrah and the other Puah, &ldquo;When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, she shall live.&rdquo; But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live. So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, &ldquo;Why have you done this, and let the male children live?&rdquo; ...	family
0	Exodus 10:17	Now therefore, forgive my sin, please, only this once, and plead with the Lord your God only to remove this death from me.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Exodus 10:3	So Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh and said to him, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, &lsquo;How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me.	humility
0	Exodus 12:12-13	For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am the Lord. The blood shall be a sign for you, on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.	blood
0	Exodus 12:13	The blood shall be a sign for you, on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.	blood
0	Exodus 12:18	In the first month, from the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month at evening.	bread
0	Exodus 12:34	So the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their cloaks on their shoulders.	bread
0	Exodus 12:7-23	&ldquo;Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses in which they eat it. They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on the fire; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it. Do not eat any of it raw or boiled in water, but roasted, its head with its legs and its inner parts. And you shall let none of it remain until the morning; anything that remains until the morning you shall burn. In this manner you shall eat it: with your belt fastened, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. And you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. ...	blood
0	Exodus 12:8	They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on the fire; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it.	bread
0	Exodus 13:2	&ldquo;Consecrate to me all the firstborn. Whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both of man and of beast, is mine.&rdquo;	sacrifice
0	Exodus 13:21	And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night.	light
0	Exodus 14:13-14	And Moses said to the people, &ldquo;Fear not, stand firm, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent.&rdquo;	protection
0	Exodus 14:14	The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent.&rdquo;	evil,fear,listening,patience,protection,rest,safety
0	Exodus 14:19	Then the angel of God who was going before the host of Israel moved and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them,	angels
0	Exodus 14:25	Clogging their chariot wheels so that they drove heavily. And the Egyptians said, &ldquo;Let us flee from before Israel, for the Lord fights for them against the Egyptians.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Exodus 14:31	Israel saw the great power that the Lord used against the Egyptians, so the people feared the Lord, and they believed in the Lord and in his servant Moses.	miracles
0	Exodus 15:1	Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, &ldquo;I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.	singing
0	Exodus 15:11	&ldquo;Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders?	holiness
0	Exodus 15:13	&ldquo;You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed; you have guided them by your strength to your holy abode.	mercy,strength
0	Exodus 15:2	The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation; this is my God, and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him.	health,praise,singing,strength,weakness,worship
0	Exodus 15:26	Saying, &ldquo;If you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God, and do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians, for I am the Lord, your healer.&rdquo;	blessing,healing,health,miracles,promises,sickness
0	Exodus 16:12	&ldquo;I have heard the grumbling of the people of Israel. Say to them, &lsquo;At twilight you shall eat meat, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread. Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God.&rsquo;&rdquo;	food
0	Exodus 16:22	On the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers each. And when all the leaders of the congregation came and told Moses,	sabbath
0	Exodus 16:23	He said to them, &ldquo;This is what the Lord has commanded: &lsquo;Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to the Lord; bake what you will bake and boil what you will boil, and all that is left over lay aside to be kept till the morning.&rsquo;&rdquo;	rest
0	Exodus 16:27	On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather, but they found none.	sabbath
0	Exodus 16:31	Now the house of Israel called its name manna. It was like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey.	bread,food
0	Exodus 16:5	On the sixth day, when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Exodus 18:21	Moreover, look for able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bribe, and place such men over the people as chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens.	honesty
0	Exodus 19:1-20:26	On the third new moon after the people of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that day they came into the wilderness of Sinai. They set out from Rephidim and came into the wilderness of Sinai, and they encamped in the wilderness. There Israel encamped before the mountain, while Moses went up to God. The Lord called to him out of the mountain, saying, &ldquo;Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel: You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine; ...	idols
0	Exodus 19:5	Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine;	covenant,obedience
0	Exodus 2:6	When she opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the baby was crying. She took pity on him and said, &ldquo;This is one of the Hebrews' children.&rdquo;	compassion
0	Exodus 20:10	But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates.	sabbath,slavery
0	Exodus 20:11	For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.	creation,rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 20:1-17	And God spoke all these words, saying, &ldquo;I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. &ldquo;You shall have no other gods before me. &ldquo;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, ...	conversion,law
0	Exodus 20:12	&ldquo;Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you.	children,family,learning,obedience,relationships
0	Exodus 20:1-26	And God spoke all these words, saying, &ldquo;I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. &ldquo;You shall have no other gods before me. &ldquo;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, ...	acknowledging,almighty,covenant,devil,equipment,faithfulness,mind,pentecost,protection,slavery,truth,worship
0	Exodus 20:13	&ldquo;You shall not murder.	neighbor
0	Exodus 20:15	&ldquo;You shall not steal.	neighbor
0	Exodus 20:16	&ldquo;You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.	gossip,honesty,lying,truth
0	Exodus 20:17	&ldquo;You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.&rdquo;	following,greed,neighbor
0	Exodus 20:19	And said to Moses, &ldquo;You speak to us, and we will listen; but do not let God speak to us, lest we die.&rdquo;	listening
0	Exodus 20:24	An altar of earth you shall make for me and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In every place where I cause my name to be remembered I will come to you and bless you.	sacrifice
0	Exodus 20:25	If you make me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stones, for if you wield your tool on it you profane it.	almighty
0	Exodus 20:2-6	&ldquo;I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. &ldquo;You shall have no other gods before me. &ldquo;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.	worship
0	Exodus 20:3	&ldquo;You shall have no other gods before me.	idols,worship
0	Exodus 20:4	&ldquo;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.	idols
0	Exodus 20:5	You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me,	receiving,worship
0	Exodus 20:5-6	You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.	children
0	Exodus 20:6	But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.	mercy
0	Exodus 20:8-10	&ldquo;Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates.	rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 20:8-11	&ldquo;Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.	creation,rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 20:9	Six days you shall labor, and do all your work,	calling,work
0	Exodus 20:9-10	Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates.	sabbath
0	Exodus 21:1	&ldquo;Now these are the rules that you shall set before them.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:11	And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:12	&ldquo;Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:1-36	&ldquo;Now these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone. But if the slave plainly says, &lsquo;I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,&rsquo; ...	slavery
0	Exodus 21:1-4	&ldquo;Now these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:15	&ldquo;Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.	punishment
0	Exodus 21:16	&ldquo;Whoever steals a man and sells him, and anyone found in possession of him, shall be put to death.	punishment,slavery
0	Exodus 21:17	&ldquo;Whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death.	punishment
0	Exodus 21:18-21	&ldquo;When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and the man does not die but takes to his bed, then if the man rises again and walks outdoors with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall have him thoroughly healed. &ldquo;When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged. But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:2	When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:20	&ldquo;When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:20-21	&ldquo;When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged. But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:2-6	When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone. But if the slave plainly says, &lsquo;I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,&rsquo; then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall be his slave forever.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:26-27	&ldquo;When a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free because of his eye. If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free because of his tooth.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:32	If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:4	If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:6	Then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall be his slave forever.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:7	&ldquo;When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:7-11	&ldquo;When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do. If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her. If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter. If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights. And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.	slavery
0	Exodus 21:8	If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her.	slavery
0	Exodus 22:1-31	&ldquo;If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it or sells it, he shall repay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.  If a thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguilt for him, but if the sun has risen on him, there shall be bloodguilt for him. He shall surely pay. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. If the stolen beast is found alive in his possession, whether it is an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he shall pay double. &ldquo;If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best in his own field and in his own vineyard. ...	faithfulness,neighbor
0	Exodus 22:14	&ldquo;If a man borrows anything of his neighbor, and it is injured or dies, the owner not being with it, he shall make full restitution.	debt
0	Exodus 22:16	&ldquo;If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall give the bride-price for her and make her his wife.	marriage
0	Exodus 22:19	&ldquo;Whoever lies with an animal shall be put to death.	punishment
0	Exodus 22:22	You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child.	orphans
0	Exodus 22:22-23	You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry,	orphans
0	Exodus 22:22-24	You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless.	orphans,widows
0	Exodus 22:2-3	If a thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguilt for him, but if the sun has risen on him, there shall be bloodguilt for him. He shall surely pay. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.	faithfulness,neighbor,pentecost,slavery
0	Exodus 22:25	&ldquo;If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a moneylender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him.	debt,money
0	Exodus 22:25-27	&ldquo;If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a moneylender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him. If ever you take your neighbor's cloak in pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun goes down, for that is his only covering, and it is his cloak for his body; in what else shall he sleep? And if he cries to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate.	debt
0	Exodus 22:27	For that is his only covering, and it is his cloak for his body; in what else shall he sleep? And if he cries to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate.	compassion
0	Exodus 22:29	&ldquo;You shall not delay to offer from the fullness of your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. The firstborn of your sons you shall give to me.	harvest
0	Exodus 22:3	But if the sun has risen on him, there shall be bloodguilt for him. He shall surely pay. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.	slavery
0	Exodus 23:1	&ldquo;You shall not spread a false report. You shall not join hands with a wicked man to be a malicious witness.	gossip,honesty,lying
0	Exodus 23:12	&ldquo;Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your servant woman, and the alien, may be refreshed.	rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 23:13	&ldquo;Pay attention to all that I have said to you, and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips.	idols
0	Exodus 23:13-33	&ldquo;Pay attention to all that I have said to you, and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips. &ldquo;Three times in the year you shall keep a feast to me. You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread. As I commanded you, you shall eat unleavened bread for seven days at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for in it you came out of Egypt. None shall appear before me empty-handed. You shall keep the Feast of Harvest, of the firstfruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field. You shall keep the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in from the field the fruit of your labor. Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord God. ...	christmas,easter
0	Exodus 23:16	You shall keep the Feast of Harvest, of the firstfruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field. You shall keep the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in from the field the fruit of your labor.	harvest,pentecost
0	Exodus 23:20	&ldquo;Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place that I have prepared.	angels
0	Exodus 23:22	&ldquo;But if you carefully obey his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries.	blessing,obedience
0	Exodus 23:25	You shall serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from among you.	blessing,bread,healing,health,sickness,worship
0	Exodus 23:26	None shall miscarry or be barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days.	fruitfulness
0	Exodus 24:5-8	And he sent young men of the people of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, &ldquo;All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient.&rdquo; And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, &ldquo;Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words.&rdquo;	purification
0	Exodus 24:6-8	And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, &ldquo;All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient.&rdquo; And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, &ldquo;Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words.&rdquo;	blood
0	Exodus 24:8	And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, &ldquo;Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words.&rdquo;	covenant
0	Exodus 25:17-22	&ldquo;You shall make a mercy seat of pure gold. Two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. And you shall make two cherubim of gold; of hammered work shall you make them, on the two ends of the mercy seat. Make one cherub on the one end, and one cherub on the other end. Of one piece with the mercy seat shall you make the cherubim on its two ends. The cherubim shall spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, their faces one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim be. And you shall put the mercy seat on the top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you. ...	mercy
0	Exodus 25:30	And you shall set the bread of the Presence on the table before me regularly.	bread
0	Exodus 28:1-29:46	&ldquo;Then bring near to you Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the people of Israel, to serve me as priests&mdash;Aaron and Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty. You shall speak to all the skillful, whom I have filled with a spirit of skill, that they make Aaron's garments to consecrate him for my priesthood. These are the garments that they shall make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash. They shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons to serve me as priests. They shall receive gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen. ...	family
0	Exodus 28:36	&ldquo;You shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it, like the engraving of a signet, &lsquo;Holy to the Lord.&rsquo;	holiness
0	Exodus 28:42	You shall make for them linen undergarments to cover their naked flesh. They shall reach from the hips to the thighs;	clothing
0	Exodus 29:2	And unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers smeared with oil. You shall make them of fine wheat flour.	bread
0	Exodus 29:23	And one loaf of bread and one cake of bread made with oil, and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before the Lord.	bread
0	Exodus 29:32	And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket in the entrance of the tent of meeting.	bread
0	Exodus 29:40	And with the first lamb a tenth seah of fine flour mingled with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil, and a fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering.	wine
0	Exodus 3:1-15:27	Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. And Moses said, &ldquo;I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned.&rdquo; When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush, &ldquo;Moses, Moses!&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Here I am.&rdquo; Then he said, &ldquo;Do not come near; take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.&rdquo; ...	slavery
0	Exodus 3:14	God said to Moses, &ldquo;I am who I am.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Say this to the people of Israel, &lsquo;I am has sent me to you.&rsquo;&rdquo;	god,jesus,redeemer,serving
0	Exodus 3:5	Then he said, &ldquo;Do not come near; take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.&rdquo;	holiness
0	Exodus 31:13	&ldquo;You are to speak to the people of Israel and say, &lsquo;Above all you shall keep my Sabbaths, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the Lord, sanctify you.	sabbath
0	Exodus 31:13-17	&ldquo;You are to speak to the people of Israel and say, &lsquo;Above all you shall keep my Sabbaths, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the Lord, sanctify you. You shall keep the Sabbath, because it is holy for you. Everyone who profanes it shall be put to death. Whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death. Therefore the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations, as a covenant forever. It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.&rsquo;&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Exodus 31:15	Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death.	rest
0	Exodus 31:16	Therefore the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations, as a covenant forever.	covenant,sabbath
0	Exodus 31:17	It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.&rsquo;&rdquo;	rest
0	Exodus 32:1-34:35	When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aaron and said to him, &ldquo;Up, make us gods who shall go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.&rdquo; So Aaron said to them, &ldquo;Take off the rings of gold that are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.&rdquo; So all the people took off the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. And he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made a golden calf. And they said, &ldquo;These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!&rdquo; When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made proclamation and said, &ldquo;Tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord.&rdquo; ...	idols
0	Exodus 32:14	And the Lord relented from the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people.	repentance
0	Exodus 32:4	And he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made a golden calf. And they said, &ldquo;These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!&rdquo;	idols
0	Exodus 33:1	The Lord said to Moses, &ldquo;Depart; go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, &lsquo;To your offspring I will give it.&rsquo;	almighty
0	Exodus 33:11	Thus the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. When Moses turned again into the camp, his assistant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the tent.	friendship
0	Exodus 33:1-23	The Lord said to Moses, &ldquo;Depart; go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, &lsquo;To your offspring I will give it.&rsquo; I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey; but I will not go up among you, lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people.&rdquo; When the people heard this disastrous word, they mourned, and no one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, &ldquo;Say to the people of Israel, &lsquo;You are a stiff-necked people; if for a single moment I should go up among you, I would consume you. So now take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	courage
0	Exodus 33:14	And he said, &ldquo;My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.&rdquo;	rest
0	Exodus 33:19	And he said, &ldquo;I will make all my goodness pass before you and will proclaim before you my name &lsquo;The Lord.&rsquo; And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.	compassion,goodness,mercy
0	Exodus 33:20	But,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;you cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live.&rdquo;	nearness
0	Exodus 34:14	(for you shall worship no other god, for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God),	worship
0	Exodus 34:17	&ldquo;You shall not make for yourself any gods of cast metal.	idols
0	Exodus 34:21	&ldquo;Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. In plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.	harvest,rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 34:22	You shall observe the Feast of Weeks, the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering at the year's end.	harvest,pentecost
0	Exodus 34:28	So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments.	covenant,fasting
0	Exodus 34:28-29	So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments. When Moses came down from Mount Sinai, with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand as he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God.	fasting
0	Exodus 34:6	The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, &ldquo;The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness,	anger,faithfulness,god,goodness,mercy,patience,reliability,truth
0	Exodus 34:6-7	The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, &ldquo;The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth generation.&rdquo;	mercy
0	Exodus 34:6-8	The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, &ldquo;The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth generation.&rdquo; And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped.	world
0	Exodus 34:7	Keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth generation.&rdquo;	faithfulness
0	Exodus 34:8	And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped.	worship
0	Exodus 35:1-35	Moses assembled all the congregation of the people of Israel and said to them, &ldquo;These are the things that the Lord has commanded you to do. Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death. You shall kindle no fire in all your dwelling places on the Sabbath day.&rdquo; Moses said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, &ldquo;This is the thing that the Lord has commanded. Take from among you a contribution to the Lord. Whoever is of a generous heart, let him bring the Lord's contribution: gold, silver, and bronze; ...	work
0	Exodus 35:2	Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death.	rest,sabbath
0	Exodus 35:22	So they came, both men and women. All who were of a willing heart brought brooches and earrings and signet rings and armlets, all sorts of gold objects, every man dedicating an offering of gold to the Lord.	generosity
0	Exodus 35:3	You shall kindle no fire in all your dwelling places on the Sabbath day.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Exodus 36:1-2	&ldquo;Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whom the Lord has put skill and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary shall work in accordance with all that the Lord has commanded.&rdquo; And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whose mind the Lord had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work.	work
0	Exodus 39:30	They made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote on it an inscription, like the engraving of a signet, &ldquo;Holy to the Lord.&rdquo;	holiness
0	Exodus 4:10-12	But Moses said to the Lord, &ldquo;Oh, my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue.&rdquo; Then the Lord said to him, &ldquo;Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak.&rdquo;	sickness
0	Exodus 4:1-6:30	Then Moses answered, &ldquo;But behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, &lsquo;The Lord did not appear to you.&rsquo;&rdquo; The Lord said to him, &ldquo;What is that in your hand?&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;A staff.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Throw it on the ground.&rdquo; So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent, and Moses ran from it. But the Lord said to Moses, &ldquo;Put out your hand and catch it by the tail&rdquo;&mdash;so he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand&mdash; &ldquo;that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.&rdquo; ...	worrying
0	Exodus 4:30	Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people.	miracles
0	Exodus 5:1-23	Afterward Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, &lsquo;Let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.&rsquo;&rdquo; But Pharaoh said, &ldquo;Who is the Lord, that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, and moreover, I will not let Israel go.&rdquo; Then they said, &ldquo;The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword.&rdquo; But the king of Egypt said to them, &ldquo;Moses and Aaron, why do you take the people away from their work? Get back to your burdens.&rdquo; And Pharaoh said, &ldquo;Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens!&rdquo; ...	reliability
0	Exodus 6:2-7	God spoke to Moses and said to him, &ldquo;I am the Lord. I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty, but by my name the Lord I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they lived as sojourners. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the people of Israel whom the Egyptians hold as slaves, and I have remembered my covenant. Say therefore to the people of Israel, &lsquo;I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from slavery to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment. ...	freedom
0	Exodus 8:3	The Nile shall swarm with frogs that shall come up into your house and into your bedroom and on your bed and into the houses of your servants and your people, and into your ovens and your kneading bowls.	bread
0	Exodus 9:16	But for this purpose I have raised you up, to show you my power, so that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth.	courage
0	Ezekiel 11:19	And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,	heart
0	Ezekiel 11:19-21	And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. But as for those whose heart goes after their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord God.&rdquo;	heart
0	Ezekiel 12:1-28:26	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house, who have eyes to see, but see not, who have ears to hear, but hear not, for they are a rebellious house. As for you, son of man, prepare for yourself an exile's baggage, and go into exile by day in their sight. You shall go like an exile from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will understand, though they are a rebellious house. You shall bring out your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for exile, and you shall go out yourself at evening in their sight, as those do who must go into exile. In their sight dig through the wall, and bring your baggage out through it. ...	the-word
0	Ezekiel 12:19	And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord God concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety, and drink water in dismay. In this way her land will be stripped of all it contains, on account of the violence of all those who dwell in it.	worrying
0	Ezekiel 13:1-14:23	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel, who are prophesying, and say to those who prophesy from their own hearts: &lsquo;Hear the word of the Lord!&rsquo; Thus says the Lord God, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing! Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel. You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the Lord. ...	idols
0	Ezekiel 13:19	You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, putting to death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live, by your lying to my people, who listen to lies.	lying
0	Ezekiel 14:6	&ldquo;Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: Repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations.	repentance
0	Ezekiel 15:6-16:27	Therefore thus says the Lord God: Like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And I will set my face against them. Though they escape from the fire, the fire shall yet consume them, and you will know that I am the Lord, when I set my face against them. And I will make the land desolate, because they have acted faithlessly, declares the Lord God.&rdquo; Again the word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations, ...	materialism,selfishness
0	Ezekiel 16:14	And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord God.	beauty
0	Ezekiel 16:27	Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you and diminished your allotted portion and delivered you to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior.	greed
0	Ezekiel 16:49	Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy.	materialism,orphans,selfishness
0	Ezekiel 16:6	&ldquo;And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you in your blood, &lsquo;Live!&rsquo; I said to you in your blood, &lsquo;Live!&rsquo;	blood
0	Ezekiel 16:8	&ldquo;When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love, and I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness; I made my vow to you and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord God, and you became mine.	covenant,marriage
0	Ezekiel 18:19-32	&ldquo;Yet you say, &lsquo;Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father?&rsquo; When the son has done what is just and right, and has been careful to observe all my statutes, he shall surely live. The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. &ldquo;But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die. None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness that he has done he shall live. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live? ...	judgment
0	Ezekiel 18:20	The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself.	hell,soul
0	Ezekiel 18:20-28	The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. &ldquo;But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die. None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness that he has done he shall live. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live? But when a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice and does the same abominations that the wicked person does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered; for the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, for them he shall die. ...	judgment
0	Ezekiel 18:21	&ldquo;But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.	death
0	Ezekiel 18:21-23	&ldquo;But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die. None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness that he has done he shall live. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?	repentance
0	Ezekiel 18:23	Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?	repentance
0	Ezekiel 18:24	But when a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice and does the same abominations that the wicked person does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered; for the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, for them he shall die.	righteousness
0	Ezekiel 18:30	&ldquo;Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, declares the Lord God. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin.	punishment
0	Ezekiel 18:30-32	&ldquo;Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, declares the Lord God. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin. Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit! Why will you die, O house of Israel? For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God; so turn, and live.&rdquo;	repentance
0	Ezekiel 18:31	Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit! Why will you die, O house of Israel?	transformation
0	Ezekiel 18:32	For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God; so turn, and live.&rdquo;	death,repentance
0	Ezekiel 18:4	Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins shall die.	ascension,hell,punishment,soul
0	Ezekiel 18:5-9	&ldquo;If a man is righteous and does what is just and right&mdash; if he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of menstrual impurity, does not oppress anyone, but restores to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment, does not lend at interest or take any profit, withholds his hand from injustice, executes true justice between man and man, walks in my statutes, and keeps my rules by acting faithfully&mdash;he is righteous; he shall surely live, declares the Lord God.	righteousness
0	Ezekiel 2:6	And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with you and you sit on scorpions. Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house.	courage
0	Ezekiel 20:12	Moreover, I gave them my Sabbaths, as a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:13	But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes but rejected my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned. &ldquo;Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:16	Because they rejected my rules and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths; for their heart went after their idols.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:20	And keep my Sabbaths holy that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am the Lord your God.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:21	But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes and were not careful to obey my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; they profaned my Sabbaths. &ldquo;Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:24	Because they had not obeyed my rules, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 20:32	&ldquo;What is in your mind shall never happen&mdash;the thought, &lsquo;Let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the countries, and worship wood and stone.&rsquo;	idols
0	Ezekiel 22:12	In you they take bribes to shed blood; you take interest and profit and make gain of your neighbors by extortion; but me you have forgotten, declares the Lord God.	greed
0	Ezekiel 22:29	The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have oppressed the poor and needy, and have extorted from the sojourner without justice.	widows
0	Ezekiel 22:7	Father and mother are treated with contempt in you; the sojourner suffers extortion in your midst; the fatherless and the widow are wronged in you.	orphans,widows
0	Ezekiel 22:8	You have despised my holy things and profaned my Sabbaths.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 23:38	Moreover, this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day and profaned my Sabbaths.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 26:1-21	In the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, because Tyre said concerning Jerusalem, &lsquo;Aha, the gate of the peoples is broken; it has swung open to me. I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,&rsquo; therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will bring up many nations against you, as the sea brings up its waves. They shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers, and I will scrape her soil from her and make her a bare rock. She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for the spreading of nets, for I have spoken, declares the Lord God. And she shall become plunder for the nations, ...	reliability
0	Ezekiel 28:11-19	Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord God: &ldquo;You were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, sardius, topaz, and diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbuncle; and crafted in gold were your settings and your engravings. On the day that you were created they were prepared. You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you; you were on the holy mountain of God; in the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in you. ...	valuable
0	Ezekiel 28:1-26	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord God: &ldquo;Because your heart is proud, and you have said, &lsquo;I am a god, I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas,&rsquo; yet you are but a man, and no god, though you make your heart like the heart of a god&mdash; you are indeed wiser than Daniel; no secret is hidden from you; by your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries; by your great wisdom in your trade you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud in your wealth&mdash; ...	pride
0	Ezekiel 28:17	Your heart was proud because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground; I exposed you before kings, to feast their eyes on you.	beauty,pride,selfishness
0	Ezekiel 29:1-21	In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt; speak, and say, Thus says the Lord God: &ldquo;Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon that lies in the midst of his streams, that says, &lsquo;My Nile is my own; I made it for myself.&rsquo; I will put hooks in your jaws, and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales; and I will draw you up out of the midst of your streams, with all the fish of your streams that stick to your scales. And I will cast you out into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your streams; you shall fall on the open field, and not be brought together or gathered. To the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens I give you as food. ...	poverty
0	Ezekiel 3:17-19	&ldquo;Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. If I say to the wicked, &lsquo;You shall surely die,&rsquo; and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul.	evangelism
0	Ezekiel 3:17-20	&ldquo;Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. If I say to the wicked, &lsquo;You shall surely die,&rsquo; and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul. Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. Because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin, and his righteous deeds that he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood I will require at your hand.	evangelism
0	Ezekiel 31:17	They also went down to Sheol with it, to those who are slain by the sword; yes, those who were its arm, who lived under its shadow among the nations.	hell
0	Ezekiel 32:1	In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 32:17	In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 33:1	The word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 33:11	Say to them, As I live, declares the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live; turn back, turn back from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of Israel?	conversion,repentance,selfishness
0	Ezekiel 33:17-34:16	&ldquo;Yet your people say, &lsquo;The way of the Lord is not just,&rsquo; when it is their own way that is not just. When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it. And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live by this. Yet you say, &lsquo;The way of the Lord is not just.&rsquo; O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways.&rdquo; In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a fugitive from Jerusalem came to me and said, &ldquo;The city has been struck down.&rdquo; ...	greed
0	Ezekiel 33:24-33	&ldquo;Son of man, the inhabitants of these waste places in the land of Israel keep saying, &lsquo;Abraham was only one man, yet he got possession of the land; but we are many; the land is surely given us to possess.&rsquo; Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God: You eat flesh with the blood and lift up your eyes to your idols and shed blood; shall you then possess the land? You rely on the sword, you commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife; shall you then possess the land? Say this to them, Thus says the Lord God: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword, and whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence. And I will make the land a desolation and a waste, and her proud might shall come to an end, and the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through. ...	poverty
0	Ezekiel 33:31	And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say but they will not do it; for with lustful talk in their mouths they act; their heart is set on their gain.	greed
0	Ezekiel 33:8	If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked person shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.	death
0	Ezekiel 34:1	The word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 34:11-16	&ldquo;For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places of the country. I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. ...	world
0	Ezekiel 34:1-31	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord God: Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. ...	community
0	Ezekiel 34:1-35:15	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord God: Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. ...	selfishness
0	Ezekiel 34:18	Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet?	selfishness
0	Ezekiel 34:25-28	&ldquo;I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing, and I will send down the showers in their season; they shall be showers of blessing. And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land. And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them. They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid.	world
0	Ezekiel 34:29-31	And I will provide for them renowned plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord God. And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord God.&rdquo;	world
0	Ezekiel 34:30-31	And they shall know that I am the Lord their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord God. And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord God.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Ezekiel 35:1	The word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 35:6	Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord God, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you; because you did not hate bloodshed, therefore blood shall pursue you.	blood
0	Ezekiel 36:22-23	&ldquo;Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.	rebirth
0	Ezekiel 36:23	And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.	holiness
0	Ezekiel 36:25	I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you.	purification
0	Ezekiel 36:25-27	I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.	sin
0	Ezekiel 36:26	And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.	heart,promises,transformation
0	Ezekiel 36:3	Therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord God: Precisely because they made you desolate and crushed you from all sides, so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations, and you became the talk and evil gossip of the people,	gossip
0	Ezekiel 37:1-14	The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley; it was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, &ldquo;Son of man, can these bones live?&rdquo; And I answered, &ldquo;O Lord God, you know.&rdquo; Then he said to me, &ldquo;Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. ...	resurrection
0	Ezekiel 37:1-28	The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley; it was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, &ldquo;Son of man, can these bones live?&rdquo; And I answered, &ldquo;O Lord God, you know.&rdquo; Then he said to me, &ldquo;Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. ...	rebirth,transformation
0	Ezekiel 37:15	The word of the Lord came to me:	prophecy
0	Ezekiel 38:16	You will come up against my people Israel, like a cloud covering the land. In the latter days I will bring you against my land, that the nations may know me, when through you, O Gog, I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.	rebirth
0	Ezekiel 38:23	So I will show my greatness and my holiness and make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am the Lord.	evangelism,holiness
0	Ezekiel 39:24	I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions, and hid my face from them.	sin
0	Ezekiel 39:29	And I will not hide my face anymore from them, when I pour out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Lord God.&rdquo;	pentecost
0	Ezekiel 4:1-5:17	&ldquo;And you, son of man, take a brick and lay it before you, and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem. And put siegeworks against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it. Set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around. And you, take an iron griddle, and place it as an iron wall between you and the city; and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel. &ldquo;Then lie on your left side, and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of the days that you lie on it, you shall bear their punishment. For I assign to you a number of days, 390 days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment. So long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel. ...	poverty
0	Ezekiel 4:16	Moreover, he said to me, &ldquo;Son of man, behold, I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay.	bread
0	Ezekiel 4:9	&ldquo;And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them into a single vessel and make your bread from them. During the number of days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat it.	bread,food
0	Ezekiel 44:1-31	Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east. And it was shut. And the Lord said to me, &ldquo;This gate shall remain shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut. Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the Lord. He shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way.&rdquo; Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple of the Lord. And I fell on my face. And the Lord said to me, &ldquo;Son of man, mark well, see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I shall tell you concerning all the statutes of the temple of the Lord and all its laws. And mark well the entrance to the temple and all the exits from the sanctuary. ...	christmas
0	Ezekiel 44:18	They shall have linen turbans on their heads, and linen undergarments around their waists. They shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat.	clothing
0	Ezekiel 44:21	No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court.	wine
0	Ezekiel 44:23	They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common, and show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean.	christmas
0	Ezekiel 44:24	In a dispute, they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbaths holy.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 45:10	&ldquo;You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.	honesty
0	Ezekiel 46:1	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord God: The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut on the six working days, but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 46:17	But if he makes a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty. Then it shall revert to the prince; surely it is his inheritance&mdash;it shall belong to his sons.	freedom
0	Ezekiel 46:3	The people of the land shall bow down at the entrance of that gate before the Lord on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.	sabbath
0	Ezekiel 48:1-35	&ldquo;These are the names of the tribes: Beginning at the northern extreme, beside the way of Hethlon to Lebo-hamath, as far as Hazar-enan (which is on the northern border of Damascus over against Hamath), and extending from the east side to the west, Dan, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Dan, from the east side to the west, Asher, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Asher, from the east side to the west, Naphtali, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Naphtali, from the east side to the west, Manasseh, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Manasseh, from the east side to the west, Ephraim, one portion. ...	equipment,receiving
0	Ezekiel 5:15	You shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror, to the nations all around you, when I execute judgments on you in anger and fury, and with furious rebukes&mdash;I am the Lord; I have spoken&mdash;	anger
0	Ezekiel 5:16	When I send against you the deadly arrows of famine, arrows for destruction, which I will send to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you and break your supply of bread.	bread
0	Ezekiel 6:1-7:27	The word of the Lord came to me: &ldquo;Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them, and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God! Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places. Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain before your idols. And I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. ...	greed
0	Ezekiel 7:19	They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.	materialism
0	Ezekiel 7:3	Now the end is upon you, and I will send my anger upon you; I will judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.	judgment
0	Ezra 10:4	Arise, for it is your task, and we are with you; be strong and do it.&rdquo;	courage,work
0	Ezra 10:6	Then Ezra withdrew from before the house of God and went to the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib, where he spent the night, neither eating bread nor drinking water, for he was mourning over the faithlessness of the exiles.	fasting
0	Ezra 6:22	And they kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, so that he aided them in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.	joy
0	Ezra 6:9	And whatever is needed&mdash;bulls, rams, or sheep for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, or oil, as the priests at Jerusalem require&mdash;let that be given to them day by day without fail,	food
0	Ezra 7:10	For Ezra had set his heart to study the Law of the Lord, and to do it and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel.	obedience
0	Ezra 8:21	Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our goods.	fasting,safety
0	Ezra 8:21-23	Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our goods. For I was ashamed to ask the king for a band of soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemy on our way, since we had told the king, &ldquo;The hand of our God is for good on all who seek him, and the power of his wrath is against all who forsake him.&rdquo; So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.	courage,fasting
0	Ezra 8:23	So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.	fasting
0	Galatians 1:15	But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace,	grace
0	Galatians 1:4	Who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,	conversion
0	Galatians 1:6-9	I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel&mdash; not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.	idols
0	Galatians 2:10	Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do.	giving,poverty
0	Galatians 2:14-20	But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, &ldquo;If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews?&rdquo; We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners; yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not! For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. ...	acknowledging
0	Galatians 2:15	We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners;	acknowledging
0	Galatians 2:16	Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.	blameless,faith,gentleness,law,mediator,righteousness,transformation
0	Galatians 2:19-21	For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.	grace
0	Galatians 2:20	I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.	anger,clothing,conversion,covenant,dependence,faith,freedom,god,grace,jesus,learning,life,love,neighbor,overcoming,rebirth,sacrifice,seeking,selfishness,transformation
0	Galatians 2:21	I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.	law,righteousness,salvation
0	Galatians 2:4	Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in&mdash;who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into slavery&mdash;	freedom
0	Galatians 3:10	For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, &ldquo;Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.&rdquo;	law
0	Galatians 3:1-29	O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain&mdash;if indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by hearing with faith&mdash; ...	covenant,freedom
0	Galatians 3:13	Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us&mdash;for it is written, &ldquo;Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree&rdquo;&mdash;	freedom
0	Galatians 3:15	To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified.	covenant
0	Galatians 3:16	Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, &ldquo;And to offsprings,&rdquo; referring to many, but referring to one, &ldquo;And to your offspring,&rdquo; who is Christ.	covenant,promises
0	Galatians 3:17	This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise void.	covenant
0	Galatians 3:19	Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made, and it was put in place through angels by an intermediary.	awe,law
0	Galatians 3:21	Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.	law
0	Galatians 3:22	But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.	freedom
0	Galatians 3:24	So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith.	law
0	Galatians 3:26	For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.	children,faith
0	Galatians 3:26-27	For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.	baptism,children,clothing
0	Galatians 3:27	For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.	baptism,church,courage,rebirth,transformation
0	Galatians 3:27-28	For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.	desires
0	Galatians 3:28	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.	body,clothing,serving,slavery
0	Galatians 3:28-29	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.	community,slavery
0	Galatians 3:5	Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by hearing with faith&mdash;	listening
0	Galatians 3:6	Just as Abraham &ldquo;believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness&rdquo;?	righteousness
0	Galatians 3:9	So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.	faithfulness
0	Galatians 4:1-31	I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. ...	christmas,fruitfulness
0	Galatians 4:14	And though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.	temptation
0	Galatians 4:29	But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.	persecution
0	Galatians 4:3-7	In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, &ldquo;Abba! Father!&rdquo; So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.	freedom
0	Galatians 4:4	But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,	jesus,messiah
0	Galatians 4:6	And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, &ldquo;Abba! Father!&rdquo;	holy-spirit,spirit
0	Galatians 4:6-9	And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, &ldquo;Abba! Father!&rdquo; So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more?	listening
0	Galatians 4:9	But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more?	freedom,wisdom
0	Galatians 5:1	For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.	addiction,dependence,desires,freedom,slavery,thoughts,trust
0	Galatians 5:11	But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been removed.	persecution
0	Galatians 5:12	I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves!	anger
0	Galatians 5:1-26	For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look: I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. ...	freedom,goodness
0	Galatians 5:13	For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.	community,freedom,humility,love,neighbor,serving
0	Galatians 5:13-14	For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	freedom,love,serving
0	Galatians 5:13-6:8	For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo; But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. ...	sin
0	Galatians 5:14	For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	equipment,law,neighbor
0	Galatians 5:16	But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.	addiction,anger,conversion,freedom,overcoming,sin,spirit,temptation
0	Galatians 5:16-17	But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.	mind,self-control,selfishness
0	Galatians 5:17	For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.	freedom,temptation
0	Galatians 5:18	But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.	freedom,law
0	Galatians 5:19-21	Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.	addiction,anger,blameless,dependence,fruitfulness,greed,idols,relationships,sin,wine
0	Galatians 5:19-25	Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. ...	heaven
0	Galatians 5:19-26	Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. ...	transformation
0	Galatians 5:20	Idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions,	anger
0	Galatians 5:21	Envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.	self-control
0	Galatians 5:22	But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,	blameless,conversion,faith,forgiveness,fruitfulness,gentleness,goodness,holy-spirit,jesus,joy,love,patience,peace,reliability,spirit
0	Galatians 5:22-23	But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.	anger,blessing,community,compassion,faithfulness,fruitfulness,gentleness,goodness,health,holy-spirit,joy,law,love,patience,self-control,spirit,transformation
0	Galatians 5:22-26	But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.	gentleness
0	Galatians 5:23	Gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.	anger,gentleness,self-control
0	Galatians 5:24	And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.	freedom,selfishness
0	Galatians 5:24-25	And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.	addiction
0	Galatians 5:25	If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.	freedom,gentleness,holy-spirit
0	Galatians 5:26	Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.	contentment,freedom,selfishness
0	Galatians 5:4	You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.	grace,law
0	Galatians 5:5	For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness.	holy-spirit,hope
0	Galatians 5:6	For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love.	faith
0	Galatians 6:1	Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.	forgiveness,fruitfulness,gentleness,temptation
0	Galatians 6:10	So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.	community,fruitfulness,gentleness,goodness,neighbor,serving
0	Galatians 6:1-18	Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will have to bear his own load. ...	poverty
0	Galatians 6:14	But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.	world
0	Galatians 6:16	And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.	calling,covenant
0	Galatians 6:2	Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.	community,compassion,encouragement,friendship,generosity,law,neighbor,obedience,selfishness,serving,suffering
0	Galatians 6:2-3	Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.	community
0	Galatians 6:3	For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.	pride
0	Galatians 6:4	But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor.	pride
0	Galatians 6:4-5	But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will have to bear his own load.	work
0	Galatians 6:6	One who is taught the word must share all good things with the one who teaches.	generosity,giving
0	Galatians 6:6-10	One who is taught the word must share all good things with the one who teaches. Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.	giving
0	Galatians 6:7	Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap.	almighty,harvest,punishment,receiving,transformation
0	Galatians 6:7-8	Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.	fruitfulness,honesty
0	Galatians 6:8	For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.	eternal-life
0	Galatians 6:9	And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up.	community,courage,goodness,harvest,patience,promises,reward,serving,strength
0	Galatians 6:9-10	And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.	community
0	Genesis 1:1	In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.	awe,blameless,creation,god,heaven,jesus,learning
0	Genesis 1:10-11	God called the dry land Earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, &ldquo;Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind, on the earth.&rdquo; And it was so.	creation
0	Genesis 1:1-11:32	In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, &ldquo;Let there be light,&rdquo; and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day. ...	creation
0	Genesis 1:1-2	In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.	acknowledging,creation,spirit
0	Genesis 1:1-31	In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, &ldquo;Let there be light,&rdquo; and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day. ...	acknowledging,almighty,confession,creation,equipment,following,miracles,receiving,reliability
0	Genesis 1:14	And God said, &ldquo;Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years,	comforter,creation
0	Genesis 1:18	To rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good.	conversion
0	Genesis 1:2	The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.	ascension,comforter,creation,pentecost,spirit,valuable
0	Genesis 1:20	And God said, &ldquo;Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens.&rdquo;	creation,life
0	Genesis 1:21	So God created the great sea creatures and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarm, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.	creation
0	Genesis 1:24	And God said, &ldquo;Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds&mdash;livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds.&rdquo; And it was so.	creation
0	Genesis 1:24-25	And God said, &ldquo;Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds&mdash;livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds.&rdquo; And it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.	creation
0	Genesis 1:26	Then God said, &ldquo;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&rdquo;	almighty,awe,creation,equipment,life,receiving
0	Genesis 1:26-27	Then God said, &ldquo;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&rdquo; So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.	acknowledging,body,valuable
0	Genesis 1:27	So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.	beauty,clothing,creation,receiving,slavery,world
0	Genesis 1:27-28	So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, &ldquo;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.&rdquo;	marriage,relationships
0	Genesis 1:28	And God blessed them. And God said to them, &ldquo;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.&rdquo;	blessing,creation,family,fruitfulness,receiving,world
0	Genesis 1:29	And God said, &ldquo;Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food.	food,health,world
0	Genesis 1:3	And God said, &ldquo;Let there be light,&rdquo; and there was light.	light,speaking
0	Genesis 1:30	And to every beast of the earth and to every bird of the heavens and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food.&rdquo; And it was so.	food
0	Genesis 1:31	And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.	beauty,body,creation,goodness,work,world
0	Genesis 1:3-31	And God said, &ldquo;Let there be light,&rdquo; and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day. And God said, &ldquo;Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters.&rdquo; And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. ...	acknowledging
0	Genesis 1:3-5	And God said, &ldquo;Let there be light,&rdquo; and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.	light
0	Genesis 1:4	And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness.	goodness,light
0	Genesis 1:8	And God called the expanse Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.	creation
0	Genesis 1:9-13	And God said, &ldquo;Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear.&rdquo; And it was so. God called the dry land Earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, &ldquo;Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind, on the earth.&rdquo; And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning, the third day.	creation
0	Genesis 11:1-32	Now the whole earth had one language and the same words. And as people migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. And they said to one another, &ldquo;Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly.&rdquo; And they had brick for stone, and bitumen for mortar. Then they said, &ldquo;Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.&rdquo; And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of man had built. ...	slavery
0	Genesis 12:11	When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, &ldquo;I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance,	beauty
0	Genesis 12:1-14:24	Now the Lord said to Abram, &ldquo;Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.&rdquo; So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan, ...	beauty
0	Genesis 12:1-3	Now the Lord said to Abram, &ldquo;Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.&rdquo;	calling,covenant
0	Genesis 12:3	I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.&rdquo;	messiah,prophecy
0	Genesis 13:13	Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord.	receiving
0	Genesis 13:6	So that the land could not support both of them dwelling together; for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together,	materialism
0	Genesis 14:1-24	In the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, these kings made war with Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar). And all these joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea). Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim, ...	orphans
0	Genesis 14:18	And Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine. (He was priest of God Most High.)	bread,wine
0	Genesis 14:19-20	And he blessed him and said, &ldquo;Blessed be Abram by God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth; and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand!&rdquo; And Abram gave him a tenth of everything.	giving
0	Genesis 15:1	After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision: &ldquo;Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.&rdquo;	reward,safety
0	Genesis 15:1-21	After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision: &ldquo;Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.&rdquo; But Abram said, &ldquo;O Lord God, what will you give me, for I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?&rdquo; And Abram said, &ldquo;Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir.&rdquo; And behold, the word of the Lord came to him: &ldquo;This man shall not be your heir; your very own son shall be your heir.&rdquo; And he brought him outside and said, &ldquo;Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able to number them.&rdquo; Then he said to him, &ldquo;So shall your offspring be.&rdquo; ...	covenant
0	Genesis 15:13-14	Then the Lord said to Abram, &ldquo;Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions.	slavery
0	Genesis 15:6	And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness.	righteousness
0	Genesis 16:12	He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen.&rdquo;	almighty
0	Genesis 16:15	And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.	almighty
0	Genesis 16:7	The angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.	angels
0	Genesis 17:1	When Abram was ninety-nine years old the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, &ldquo;I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless,	almighty,holiness
0	Genesis 17:1-22	When Abram was ninety-nine years old the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, &ldquo;I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly.&rdquo; Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him, &ldquo;Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. ...	covenant
0	Genesis 17:19	God said, &ldquo;No, but Sarah your wife shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him.	prophecy
0	Genesis 17:23	Then Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day, as God had said to him.	almighty
0	Genesis 17:25	And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.	almighty
0	Genesis 17:7	And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.	covenant
0	Genesis 18:10	The Lord said, &ldquo;I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son.&rdquo; And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him.	listening
0	Genesis 18:19	For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice, so that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised him.&rdquo;	children,family
0	Genesis 18:20	Then the Lord said, &ldquo;Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave,	receiving
0	Genesis 18:27	Abraham answered and said, &ldquo;Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes.	humility
0	Genesis 18:5	While I bring a morsel of bread, that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on&mdash;since you have come to your servant.&rdquo; So they said, &ldquo;Do as you have said.&rdquo;	bread
0	Genesis 18:6	And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, &ldquo;Quick! Three seahs of fine flour! Knead it, and make cakes.&rdquo;	bread
0	Genesis 19:1-11	The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth and said, &ldquo;My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way.&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;No; we will spend the night in the town square.&rdquo; But he pressed them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house. And they called to Lot, &ldquo;Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.&rdquo; ...	acknowledging
0	Genesis 19:1-13	The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth and said, &ldquo;My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way.&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;No; we will spend the night in the town square.&rdquo; But he pressed them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house. And they called to Lot, &ldquo;Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.&rdquo; ...	desires
0	Genesis 19:1-38	The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth and said, &ldquo;My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way.&rdquo; They said, &ldquo;No; we will spend the night in the town square.&rdquo; But he pressed them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house. And they called to Lot, &ldquo;Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.&rdquo; ...	acknowledging,following,idols,soul
0	Genesis 19:3	But he pressed them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.	bread,food
0	Genesis 19:5	And they called to Lot, &ldquo;Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.&rdquo;	receiving
0	Genesis 2:1	Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.	angels
0	Genesis 2:1-25	Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. When no bush of the field was yet in the land and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up&mdash;for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground, ...	acknowledging,reliability,rest,spirit
0	Genesis 2:1-3	Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.	rest
0	Genesis 2:15	The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it.	work
0	Genesis 2:17	But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&rdquo;	covenant,evil,punishment,sin,soul
0	Genesis 2:18	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him.&rdquo;	community,creation,marriage,relationships
0	Genesis 2:18-20	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him.&rdquo; Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him.	world
0	Genesis 2:18-25	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him.&rdquo; Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. ...	receiving,relationships
0	Genesis 2:19	Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name.	creation
0	Genesis 2:2	And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done.	sabbath
0	Genesis 2:20-24	The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. Then the man said, &ldquo;This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.&rdquo; Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.	marriage
0	Genesis 2:22	And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man.	world
0	Genesis 2:22-24	And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. Then the man said, &ldquo;This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.&rdquo; Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.	marriage
0	Genesis 2:2-3	And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.	rest
0	Genesis 2:24	Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.	family,marriage,relationships
0	Genesis 2:3	So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.	creation,purification,rest,sabbath,work
0	Genesis 2:4	These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens.	creation
0	Genesis 2:7	Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature.	blameless,creation,death,eternal-life,following,life,purification,soul,spirit,transformation,world
0	Genesis 2:8-9	And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.	world
0	Genesis 2:9	And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.	eternal-life,life
0	Genesis 21:13	And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring.&rdquo;	comforter
0	Genesis 21:14	So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.	bread
0	Genesis 21:18	Up! Lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation.&rdquo;	comforter
0	Genesis 21:21	He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt.	comforter
0	Genesis 22:1-3	After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, &ldquo;Abraham!&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Here am I.&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.&rdquo; So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him.	strength
0	Genesis 22:17	I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies,	crucifixion
0	Genesis 22:18	And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice.&rdquo;	messiah,prophecy
0	Genesis 22:2	He said, &ldquo;Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.&rdquo;	sacrifice
0	Genesis 22:2-18	He said, &ldquo;Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.&rdquo; So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. Then Abraham said to his young men, &ldquo;Stay here with the donkey; I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you.&rdquo; And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. ...	family
0	Genesis 22:5	Then Abraham said to his young men, &ldquo;Stay here with the donkey; I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you.&rdquo;	worship
0	Genesis 24:16	The young woman was very attractive in appearance, a maiden whom no man had known. She went down to the spring and filled her jar and came up.	beauty
0	Genesis 24:52	When Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the earth before the Lord.	worship
0	Genesis 24:67	Then Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah his mother and took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.	marriage,relationships
0	Genesis 25:1-26:35	Abraham took another wife, whose name was Keturah. She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim. The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. Abraham gave all he had to Isaac. ...	debt
0	Genesis 25:13	These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, named in the order of their birth: Nebaioth, the firstborn of Ishmael; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,	comforter
0	Genesis 25:18	They settled from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt in the direction of Assyria. He settled over against all his kinsmen.	almighty
0	Genesis 25:29-34	Once when Jacob was cooking stew, Esau came in from the field, and he was exhausted. And Esau said to Jacob, &ldquo;Let me eat some of that red stew, for I am exhausted!&rdquo; (Therefore his name was called Edom.) Jacob said, &ldquo;Sell me your birthright now.&rdquo; Esau said, &ldquo;I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?&rdquo; Jacob said, &ldquo;Swear to me now.&rdquo; So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. ...	work
0	Genesis 25:8	Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people.	death
0	Genesis 26:17-22	So Isaac departed from there and encamped in the Valley of Gerar and settled there. And Isaac dug again the wells of water that had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, which the Philistines had stopped after the death of Abraham. And he gave them the names that his father had given them. But when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of spring water, the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, &ldquo;The water is ours.&rdquo; So he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him. Then they dug another well, and they quarreled over that also, so he called its name Sitnah. ...	self-control
0	Genesis 26:3	Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you and will bless you, for to you and to your offspring I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham your father.	faithfulness,family
0	Genesis 26:4	I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed,	blessing
0	Genesis 26:4-5	I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.&rdquo;	listening
0	Genesis 27:17	And she put the delicious food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.	bread
0	Genesis 27:28	May God give you of the dew of heaven and of the fatness of the earth and plenty of grain and wine.	food,wine
0	Genesis 27:5	Now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to his son Esau. So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game and bring it,	listening
0	Genesis 27:9	Go to the flock and bring me two good young goats, so that I may prepare from them delicious food for your father, such as he loves.	food
0	Genesis 28:12-15	And he dreamed, and behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it! And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, &ldquo;I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and to your offspring. Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in you and your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.&rdquo;	family,worrying
0	Genesis 28:15	Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.&rdquo;	protection
0	Genesis 28:15-17	Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.&rdquo; Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, &ldquo;Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it.&rdquo; And he was afraid and said, &ldquo;How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.&rdquo;	courage
0	Genesis 28:20	Then Jacob made a vow, saying, &ldquo;If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear,	blessing
0	Genesis 28:20-22	Then Jacob made a vow, saying, &ldquo;If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God, and this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house. And of all that you give me I will give a full tenth to you.&rdquo;	equipment,giving
0	Genesis 29:17	Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance.	beauty
0	Genesis 29:20	So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love he had for her.	love,patience
0	Genesis 3:1	Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, &ldquo;Did God actually say, &lsquo;You shall not eat of any tree in the garden&rsquo;?&rdquo;	devil
0	Genesis 3:1-13	Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, &ldquo;Did God actually say, &lsquo;You shall not eat of any tree in the garden&rsquo;?&rdquo; And the woman said to the serpent, &ldquo;We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, &lsquo;You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.&rsquo;&rdquo; But the serpent said to the woman, &ldquo;You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.&rdquo; ...	temptation
0	Genesis 3:1-19	Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, &ldquo;Did God actually say, &lsquo;You shall not eat of any tree in the garden&rsquo;?&rdquo; And the woman said to the serpent, &ldquo;We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, &lsquo;You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.&rsquo;&rdquo; But the serpent said to the woman, &ldquo;You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.&rdquo; ...	temptation
0	Genesis 3:1-24	Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, &ldquo;Did God actually say, &lsquo;You shall not eat of any tree in the garden&rsquo;?&rdquo; And the woman said to the serpent, &ldquo;We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, &lsquo;You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.&rsquo;&rdquo; But the serpent said to the woman, &ldquo;You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.&rdquo; ...	ascension,clothing,evil,sin
0	Genesis 3:14	The Lord God said to the serpent, &ldquo;Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field; on your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life.	life
0	Genesis 3:15	I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring; he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel.&rdquo;	covenant,messiah,promises,prophecy,suffering
0	Genesis 3:17-19	And to Adam he said, &ldquo;Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, &lsquo;You shall not eat of it,&rsquo; cursed is the ground because of you; in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life; thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you; and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken; for you are dust, and to dust you shall return.&rdquo;	work
0	Genesis 3:19	By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken; for you are dust, and to dust you shall return.&rdquo;	bread,death,eternal-life,food,work
0	Genesis 3:21	And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them.	clothing
0	Genesis 3:22	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever&mdash;&rdquo;	eternal-life,evil
0	Genesis 3:22-23	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever&mdash;&rdquo; therefore the Lord God sent him out from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken.	life
0	Genesis 3:22-24	Then the Lord God said, &ldquo;Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever&mdash;&rdquo; therefore the Lord God sent him out from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.	spirit
0	Genesis 3:24	He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.	angels
0	Genesis 3:4	But the serpent said to the woman, &ldquo;You will not surely die.	awe,lying
0	Genesis 3:5	For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.&rdquo;	evil,pride
0	Genesis 3:6	So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate.	food,temptation
0	Genesis 3:7	Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.	clothing
0	Genesis 30:14	In the days of wheat harvest Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, &ldquo;Please give me some of your son's mandrakes.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Genesis 30:22-24	Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. She conceived and bore a son and said, &ldquo;God has taken away my reproach.&rdquo; And she called his name Joseph, saying, &ldquo;May the Lord add to me another son!&rdquo;	family
0	Genesis 30:33	So my honesty will answer for me later, when you come to look into my wages with you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and black among the lambs, if found with me, shall be counted stolen.&rdquo;	honesty
0	Genesis 31:19	Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole her father's household gods.	idols
0	Genesis 32:30	So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, &ldquo;For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered.&rdquo;	almighty,nearness
0	Genesis 32:32	Therefore to this day the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket, because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh.	understanding
0	Genesis 33:11	Please accept my blessing that is brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough.&rdquo; Thus he urged him, and he took it.	contentment,generosity
0	Genesis 33:4	But Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept.	reconciliation
0	Genesis 33:5	And when Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and children, he said, &ldquo;Who are these with you?&rdquo; Jacob said, &ldquo;The children whom God has graciously given your servant.&rdquo;	children
0	Genesis 38:14	She took off her widow's garments and covered herself with a veil, wrapping herself up, and sat at the entrance to Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah. For she saw that Shelah was grown up, and she had not been given to him in marriage.	clothing
0	Genesis 39:1-23	Now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, had bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his Egyptian master. His master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands. So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him, and he made him overseer of his house and put him in charge of all that he had. From the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; the blessing of the Lord was on all that he had, in house and field. ...	self-control
0	Genesis 39:21-23	But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him steadfast love and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever was done there, he was the one who did it. The keeper of the prison paid no attention to anything that was in Joseph's charge, because the Lord was with him. And whatever he did, the Lord made it succeed.	mercy
0	Genesis 39:6	So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge, and because of him he had no concern about anything but the food he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance.	beauty
0	Genesis 4:10	And the Lord said, &ldquo;What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground.	blood
0	Genesis 4:1-26	Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, &ldquo;I have gotten a man with the help of the Lord.&rdquo; And again, she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground. In the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground, and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. ...	self-control,selfishness,slavery
0	Genesis 4:5-8	But for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. The Lord said to Cain, &ldquo;Why are you angry, and why has your face fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must rule over it.&rdquo; Cain spoke to Abel his brother. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him.	anger
0	Genesis 4:7	If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must rule over it.&rdquo;	addiction,sin,temptation
0	Genesis 4:9	Then the Lord said to Cain, &ldquo;Where is Abel your brother?&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;I do not know; am I my brother's keeper?&rdquo;	selfishness
0	Genesis 40:2	And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker,	bread
0	Genesis 41:16	Joseph answered Pharaoh, &ldquo;It is not in me; God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer.&rdquo;	humility
0	Genesis 41:34-36	Let Pharaoh proceed to appoint overseers over the land and take one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt during the seven plentiful years. And let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh for food in the cities, and let them keep it. That food shall be a reserve for the land against the seven years of famine that are to occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land may not perish through the famine.&rdquo;	planning
0	Genesis 42:16	Send one of you, and let him bring your brother, while you remain confined, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you. Or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies.&rdquo;	truth
0	Genesis 43:11	Then their father Israel said to them, &ldquo;If it must be so, then do this: take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry a present down to the man, a little balm and a little honey, gum, myrrh, pistachio nuts, and almonds.	food
0	Genesis 45:4-8	So Joseph said to his brothers, &ldquo;Come near to me, please.&rdquo; And they came near. And he said, &ldquo;I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt.	reconciliation
0	Genesis 45:6	For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.	harvest
0	Genesis 46:1	So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.	sacrifice
0	Genesis 49:10	The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him; and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.	messiah,obedience
0	Genesis 5:1	This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God created man, he made him in the likeness of God.	creation
0	Genesis 5:24	Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.	faithfulness
0	Genesis 50:15-21	When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, &ldquo;It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him.&rdquo; So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, &ldquo;Your father gave this command before he died, &lsquo;Say to Joseph, Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you.&rsquo; And now, please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father.&rdquo; Joseph wept when they spoke to him. His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, &ldquo;Behold, we are your servants.&rdquo; But Joseph said to them, &ldquo;Do not fear, for am I in the place of God? ...	forgiveness
0	Genesis 50:20	As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive, as they are today.	evil
0	Genesis 6:1-22	When man began to multiply on the face of the land and daughters were born to them, the sons of God saw that the daughters of man were attractive. And they took as their wives any they chose. Then the Lord said, &ldquo;My Spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh: his days shall be 120 years.&rdquo; The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. ...	equipment,receiving
0	Genesis 6:21	Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten, and store it up. It shall serve as food for you and for them.&rdquo;	food
0	Genesis 6:3	Then the Lord said, &ldquo;My Spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh: his days shall be 120 years.&rdquo;	mediator,nearness,spirit
0	Genesis 6:3-7	Then the Lord said, &ldquo;My Spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh: his days shall be 120 years.&rdquo; The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, &ldquo;I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them.&rdquo;	spirit
0	Genesis 6:5	The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.	evil
0	Genesis 6:5-7	The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, &ldquo;I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them.&rdquo;	evil
0	Genesis 6:6	And the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart.	compassion
0	Genesis 6:6-7	And the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, &ldquo;I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them.&rdquo;	almighty
0	Genesis 6:8	But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.	grace
0	Genesis 6:9	These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God.	righteousness
0	Genesis 8:20-21	Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, &ldquo;I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done.	sacrifice
0	Genesis 8:22	While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night, shall not cease.&rdquo;	harvest,planning
0	Genesis 8:4	And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat.	rest
0	Genesis 9:11	I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth.&rdquo;	covenant,safety
0	Genesis 9:13	I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.	covenant
0	Genesis 9:21	He drank of the wine and became drunk and lay uncovered in his tent.	wine
0	Genesis 9:25	He said, &ldquo;Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers.&rdquo;	slavery
0	Genesis 9:3	Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. And as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything.	food
0	Genesis 9:3-4	Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. And as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything. But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.	food
0	Genesis 9:4	But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.	blood
0	Genesis 9:5-6	And for your lifeblood I will require a reckoning: from every beast I will require it and from man. From his fellow man I will require a reckoning for the life of man. &ldquo;Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image.	faithfulness,punishment
0	Genesis 9:6	&ldquo;Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image.	law,punishment
0	Habakkuk 2:1	I will take my stand at my watchpost and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.	safety
0	Habakkuk 2:12	&ldquo;Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity!	blood
0	Habakkuk 2:15	&ldquo;Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink&mdash; you pour out your wrath and make them drunk, in order to gaze at their nakedness!	wine
0	Habakkuk 2:18	&ldquo;What profit is an idol when its maker has shaped it, a metal image, a teacher of lies? For its maker trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols!	idols
0	Habakkuk 2:20	But the Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before him.&rdquo;	rest
0	Habakkuk 2:2-3	And the Lord answered me: &ldquo;Write the vision; make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time; it hastens to the end&mdash;it will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it; it will surely come; it will not delay.	planning
0	Habakkuk 2:3	For still the vision awaits its appointed time; it hastens to the end&mdash;it will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it; it will surely come; it will not delay.	patience
0	Habakkuk 2:4	&ldquo;Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith.	faith
0	Habakkuk 2:5	&ldquo;Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol; like death he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples.&rdquo;	wine
0	Habakkuk 2:5-14	&ldquo;Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol; like death he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples.&rdquo; Shall not all these take up their taunt against him, with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, &ldquo;Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own&mdash; for how long?&mdash; and loads himself with pledges!&rdquo; Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoil for them. Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall plunder you, for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them. &ldquo;Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm! ...	greed
0	Habakkuk 3:1-16	A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigionoth. O Lord, I have heard the report of you, and your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of the years revive it; in the midst of the years make it known; in wrath remember mercy. God came from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. Selah His brightness was like the light; rays flashed from his hand; and there he veiled his power. Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels. ...	world
0	Habakkuk 3:16-18	I hear, and my body trembles; my lips quiver at the sound; rottenness enters into my bones; my legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.	contentment
0	Habakkuk 3:17-18	Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.	joy,worship
0	Habakkuk 3:17-19	Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord; I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength; he makes my feet like the deer's; he makes me tread on my high places. To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments.	praise
0	Habakkuk 3:18	Yet I will rejoice in the Lord; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.	savior
0	Habakkuk 3:19	God, the Lord, is my strength; he makes my feet like the deer's; he makes me tread on my high places. To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments.	blessing,strength
0	Haggai 1:11	And I have called for a drought on the land and the hills, on the grain, the new wine, the oil, on what the ground brings forth, on man and beast, and on all their labors.&rdquo;	wine
0	Haggai 1:4	&ldquo;Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house lies in ruins?	selfishness
0	Haggai 1:8	Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house, that I may take pleasure in it and that I may be glorified, says the Lord.	beauty
0	Haggai 1:9	You looked for much, and behold, it came to little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why? declares the Lord of hosts. Because of my house that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his own house.	selfishness
0	Haggai 2:8	The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts.	materialism
0	Hebrews 1:10	And, &ldquo;You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;	creation,redeemer
0	Hebrews 1:1-14	Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, &ldquo;You are my Son, today I have begotten you&rdquo;? Or again, &ldquo;I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son&rdquo;? ...	awe
0	Hebrews 1:13	And to which of the angels has he ever said, &ldquo;Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet&rdquo;?	angels
0	Hebrews 1:1-3	Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,	purification
0	Hebrews 1:14	Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?	angels,blameless,compassion
0	Hebrews 1:2	But in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.	creation
0	Hebrews 1:3	He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,	comforter,creation,god,jesus,kingdom,purification,the-word
0	Hebrews 1:6	And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, &ldquo;Let all God's angels worship him.&rdquo;	angels,jesus,redeemer,worship
0	Hebrews 1:7	Of the angels he says, &ldquo;He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire.&rdquo;	angels
0	Hebrews 1:8	But of the Son he says, &ldquo;Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom.	comforter,jesus,redeemer
0	Hebrews 1:9	You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions.&rdquo;	comforter,prophecy
0	Hebrews 10:1	For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near.	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:10	And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.	purification,sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:11-14	And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:12	But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:1-39	For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins? But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, &ldquo;Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me; ...	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:14	For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.	purification,sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:16	&ldquo;This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,&rdquo;	covenant
0	Hebrews 10:17	Then he adds, &ldquo;I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.&rdquo;	forgiveness
0	Hebrews 10:17-24	Then he adds, &ldquo;I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.&rdquo; Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, ...	savior
0	Hebrews 10:19	Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus,	blood
0	Hebrews 10:22	Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.	blood,heart,purification
0	Hebrews 10:23	Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.	confession,faithfulness,hope,promises,reliability
0	Hebrews 10:24	And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works,	community
0	Hebrews 10:24-25	And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.	church,community,dependence,encouragement,friendship,relationships
0	Hebrews 10:25	Not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.	church,community,encouragement,sabbath,worship
0	Hebrews 10:26	For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,	confession,equipment,receiving,sacrifice,sin
0	Hebrews 10:26-31	For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace? For we know him who said, &ldquo;Vengeance is mine; I will repay.&rdquo; And again, &ldquo;The Lord will judge his people.&rdquo; ...	hell
0	Hebrews 10:28-31	Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace? For we know him who said, &ldquo;Vengeance is mine; I will repay.&rdquo; And again, &ldquo;The Lord will judge his people.&rdquo; It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.	punishment
0	Hebrews 10:29	How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace?	blood,spirit
0	Hebrews 10:34	For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one.	compassion,sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:35	Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward.	reward
0	Hebrews 10:35-36	Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised.	promises
0	Hebrews 10:36	For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised.	blessing,patience
0	Hebrews 10:38	But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.&rdquo;	faith
0	Hebrews 10:4	For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.	blood
0	Hebrews 10:5	Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, &ldquo;Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me;	body,purification,sacrifice
0	Hebrews 10:6-9	In burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, &lsquo;Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.&rsquo;&rdquo; When he said above, &ldquo;You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings&rdquo; (these are offered according to the law), then he added, &ldquo;Behold, I have come to do your will.&rdquo; He does away with the first in order to establish the second.	blood
0	Hebrews 10:8	When he said above, &ldquo;You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings&rdquo; (these are offered according to the law),	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 11:1	Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.	conversion,faith,healing,hope,planning,sickness,truth,worrying
0	Hebrews 11:10	For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God.	heaven
0	Hebrews 11:11	By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised.	faith,faithfulness
0	Hebrews 11:1-13:25	Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God. ...	faith
0	Hebrews 11:1-31	Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God. ...	safety
0	Hebrews 11:1-40	Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God. ...	ascension,faith,faithfulness,fruitfulness,promises,selfishness,weakness
0	Hebrews 11:16	But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city.	heaven
0	Hebrews 11:17	By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son,	temptation
0	Hebrews 11:17-18	By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, &ldquo;Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.&rdquo;	father
0	Hebrews 11:19	He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back.	resurrection
0	Hebrews 11:2	For by it the people of old received their commendation.	faith
0	Hebrews 11:23	By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict.	beauty
0	Hebrews 11:26	He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward.	reward
0	Hebrews 11:26-29	He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned.	materialism
0	Hebrews 11:3	By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible.	creation
0	Hebrews 11:34	Quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight.	weakness
0	Hebrews 11:35	Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life.	resurrection
0	Hebrews 11:4	By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks.	clothing,fruitfulness
0	Hebrews 11:5	By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God.	blameless
0	Hebrews 11:5-6	By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God. And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.	faithfulness
0	Hebrews 11:6	And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.	acknowledging,almighty,calling,equipment,faith,god,goodness,healing,mind,redeemer,reward,seeking,sickness,soul,trust
0	Hebrews 11:7	By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith.	faith
0	Hebrews 12:1	Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,	life,overcoming,patience,self-control
0	Hebrews 12:10	For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness.	blessing,holiness
0	Hebrews 12:11	For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.	children,judgment,peace,punishment,suffering
0	Hebrews 12:1-2	Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.	overcoming
0	Hebrews 12:14	Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.	holiness,peace,purification,reconciliation
0	Hebrews 12:15	See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God; that no &ldquo;root of bitterness&rdquo; springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled;	grace,thoughts
0	Hebrews 12:17	For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears.	repentance
0	Hebrews 12:2	Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.	faith,jesus,joy,patience
0	Hebrews 12:22	But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering,	angels
0	Hebrews 12:22-24	But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.	heaven
0	Hebrews 12:23	And to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,	faithfulness
0	Hebrews 12:24	And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.	blood,covenant
0	Hebrews 12:28	Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe,	gratitude,kingdom,worship
0	Hebrews 12:29	For our God is a consuming fire.	awe,purification
0	Hebrews 12:3	Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted.	persecution
0	Hebrews 12:4	In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.	temptation
0	Hebrews 12:9-11	Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.	children
0	Hebrews 13:12	So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood.	blood
0	Hebrews 13:1-2	Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.	community,gentleness,neighbor
0	Hebrews 13:1-25	Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &ldquo;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&rdquo; ...	marriage,orphans
0	Hebrews 13:14	For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come.	death,heaven
0	Hebrews 13:15	Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name.	fruitfulness,gratitude,praise,sacrifice,singing,worship
0	Hebrews 13:15-16	Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 13:16	Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.	generosity,giving,reward,sacrifice,selfishness,serving
0	Hebrews 13:17	Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you.	church,obedience
0	Hebrews 13:18	Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things.	honesty
0	Hebrews 13:2	Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.	angels,christmas,generosity
0	Hebrews 13:20	Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant,	blood,covenant
0	Hebrews 13:20-21	Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.	covenant,resurrection
0	Hebrews 13:3	Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body.	compassion
0	Hebrews 13:4	Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous.	blameless,clothing,desires,marriage,relationships,temptation
0	Hebrews 13:5	Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &ldquo;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&rdquo;	contentment,debt,encouragement,friendship,gentleness,giving,greed,honesty,idols,life,materialism,money,nearness,protection,reliability,weakness
0	Hebrews 13:5-6	Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &ldquo;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&rdquo; So we can confidently say, &ldquo;The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?&rdquo;	courage,fear,fruitfulness,serving,worrying
0	Hebrews 13:6	So we can confidently say, &ldquo;The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?&rdquo;	fear,protection,safety,trust,worrying
0	Hebrews 13:8	Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.	blameless,faithfulness,healing,jesus,neighbor,pentecost,promises,protection,redeemer,transformation,trust
0	Hebrews 13:9	Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them.	food,grace
0	Hebrews 2:10	For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering.	acknowledging,suffering
0	Hebrews 2:11	For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,	purification
0	Hebrews 2:12	Saying, &ldquo;I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise.&rdquo;	singing
0	Hebrews 2:14	Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,	comforter,death,devil,overcoming
0	Hebrews 2:14-15	Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery.	death,freedom
0	Hebrews 2:14-18	Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.	grace
0	Hebrews 2:18	For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.	addiction,promises,temptation
0	Hebrews 2:2	For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution,	angels
0	Hebrews 2:3	How shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,	salvation
0	Hebrews 2:4	While God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will.	holy-spirit,miracles
0	Hebrews 2:6-10	It has been testified somewhere, &ldquo;What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him? You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet.&rdquo; Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering.	world
0	Hebrews 2:9	But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.	grace,jesus
0	Hebrews 3:1	Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession,	calling,thoughts
0	Hebrews 3:10	Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said, &lsquo;They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways.&rsquo;	heart
0	Hebrews 3:11	As I swore in my wrath, &lsquo;They shall not enter my rest.&rsquo;&rdquo;	anger
0	Hebrews 3:13	But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called &ldquo;today,&rdquo; that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.	relationships,sadness
0	Hebrews 3:2	Who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house.	faithfulness
0	Hebrews 3:4	(For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.)	creation
0	Hebrews 3:5	Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later,	faithfulness,reliability
0	Hebrews 3:6	But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope.	blessing,church,hope
0	Hebrews 3:8	Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness,	heart
0	Hebrews 4:11	Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.	rest
0	Hebrews 4:1-11	Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened. For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, &ldquo;As I swore in my wrath, &lsquo;They shall not enter my rest,&rsquo;&rdquo; although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: &ldquo;And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.&rdquo; And again in this passage he said, &ldquo;They shall not enter my rest.&rdquo; ...	rest
0	Hebrews 4:11-13	Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account.	soul
0	Hebrews 4:1-16	Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened. For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, &ldquo;As I swore in my wrath, &lsquo;They shall not enter my rest,&rsquo;&rdquo; although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: &ldquo;And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.&rdquo; And again in this passage he said, &ldquo;They shall not enter my rest.&rdquo; ...	rest
0	Hebrews 4:12	For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.	encouragement,faithfulness,fruitfulness,god,goodness,heart,learning,reliability,righteousness,sadness,speaking,spirit,strength,thoughts,understanding,weakness,the-word
0	Hebrews 4:12-5:9	For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. ...	sin
0	Hebrews 4:1-4	Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened. For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, &ldquo;As I swore in my wrath, &lsquo;They shall not enter my rest,&rsquo;&rdquo; although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: &ldquo;And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Hebrews 4:14-15	Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.	suffering
0	Hebrews 4:15	For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.	awe,compassion,jesus,self-control,suffering,temptation,weakness
0	Hebrews 4:15-16	For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.	addiction,suffering,weakness
0	Hebrews 4:16	Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.	dependence,grace,mercy,nearness,prayer,weakness
0	Hebrews 4:2	For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened.	the-word
0	Hebrews 4:4	For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: &ldquo;And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.&rdquo;	rest,sabbath
0	Hebrews 4:4-10	For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: &ldquo;And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.&rdquo; And again in this passage he said, &ldquo;They shall not enter my rest.&rdquo; Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience, again he appoints a certain day, &ldquo;Today,&rdquo; saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, &ldquo;Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.&rdquo; For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. ...	pentecost
0	Hebrews 4:7	Again he appoints a certain day, &ldquo;Today,&rdquo; saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, &ldquo;Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.&rdquo;	listening
0	Hebrews 4:9	So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God,	sabbath
0	Hebrews 4:9-10	So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.	rest
0	Hebrews 4:9-11	So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.	rest
0	Hebrews 5:11	About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing.	weakness
0	Hebrews 5:11-14	About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil.	fruitfulness
0	Hebrews 5:1-2	For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness.	gentleness
0	Hebrews 5:2	He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness.	gentleness
0	Hebrews 5:7	In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence.	prayer
0	Hebrews 5:8	Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered.	obedience
0	Hebrews 5:8-6:3	Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, ...	christmas
0	Hebrews 5:9	And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,	eternal-life,grace,obedience
0	Hebrews 6:1	Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God,	baptism,repentance
0	Hebrews 6:10	For God is not unjust so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints, as you still do.	community,gentleness,giving,reward,serving
0	Hebrews 6:10-12	For God is not unjust so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints, as you still do. And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.	work
0	Hebrews 6:11	And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end,	hope
0	Hebrews 6:12	So that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.	patience
0	Hebrews 6:1-20	Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. And this we will do if God permits. For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come, ...	easter,materialism
0	Hebrews 6:13	For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself,	promises
0	Hebrews 6:15	And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.	patience
0	Hebrews 6:18	So that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.	blameless,encouragement,fruitfulness,honesty,lying,truth
0	Hebrews 6:18-19	So that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain,	hope
0	Hebrews 6:19	We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain,	hope
0	Hebrews 6:2	And of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.	purification
0	Hebrews 6:4-6	For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.	salvation
0	Hebrews 6:6	And then have fallen away, to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.	repentance
0	Hebrews 7:1-3	For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, and to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is first, by translation of his name, king of righteousness, and then he is also king of Salem, that is, king of peace. He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling the Son of God he continues a priest forever.	orphans
0	Hebrews 7:22	This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant.	covenant
0	Hebrews 7:25	Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.	jesus,mediator
0	Hebrews 7:26	For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens.	holiness
0	Hebrews 8:10	For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.	covenant,mind,transformation
0	Hebrews 8:1-13	Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven, a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; thus it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer. Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law. They serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he was instructed by God, saying, &ldquo;See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain.&rdquo; ...	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:12	For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.&rdquo;	covenant,forgiveness
0	Hebrews 8:13	In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:2	A minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man.	church
0	Hebrews 8:6	But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:7	For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second.	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:7-13	For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he finds fault with them when he says: &ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, &lsquo;Know the Lord,&rsquo; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. ...	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:7-8	For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he finds fault with them when he says: &ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:8	For he finds fault with them when he says: &ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,	covenant
0	Hebrews 8:8-12	For he finds fault with them when he says: &ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, &lsquo;Know the Lord,&rsquo; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.&rdquo;	covenant,prophecy
0	Hebrews 9:11	But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation)	purification
0	Hebrews 9:11-10:14	But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. ...	debt
0	Hebrews 9:12	He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption.	blood,covenant,sacrifice
0	Hebrews 9:12-14	He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.	blood
0	Hebrews 9:13-14	For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.	purification
0	Hebrews 9:14	How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.	blameless,blood,comforter,purification,reconciliation,sacrifice,serving,spirit
0	Hebrews 9:15	Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant.	calling,covenant,freedom,mediator
0	Hebrews 9:19-22	For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, &ldquo;This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you.&rdquo; And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.	blood
0	Hebrews 9:2	For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place.	purification
0	Hebrews 9:21-22	And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.	sacrifice
0	Hebrews 9:22	Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.	blameless,blood,purification,reconciliation
0	Hebrews 9:26	For then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.	suffering
0	Hebrews 9:27	And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment,	awe,blameless,death,eternal-life,hell,judgment,mediator,rebirth,resurrection,valuable
0	Hebrews 9:27-28	And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.	awe
0	Hebrews 9:28	So Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.	awe,sacrifice,salvation,second-coming,understanding
0	Hebrews 9:6-28	These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties, but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation. ...	blood
0	Hosea 10:12	Sow for yourselves righteousness; reap steadfast love; break up your fallow ground, for it is the time to seek the Lord, that he may come and rain righteousness upon you.	goodness,harvest,righteousness,seeking
0	Hosea 11:1	When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.	messiah
0	Hosea 11:3	Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk; I took them up by their arms, but they did not know that I healed them.	blessing
0	Hosea 12:6	&ldquo;So you, by the help of your God, return, hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your God.&rdquo;	mercy
0	Hosea 13:14	Shall I ransom them from the power of Sheol? Shall I redeem them from Death? O Death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? Compassion is hidden from my eyes.	awe,death
0	Hosea 13:16	Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God; they shall fall by the sword; their little ones shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women ripped open.	body
0	Hosea 13:6	But when they had grazed, they became full, they were filled, and their heart was lifted up; therefore they forgot me.	christmas
0	Hosea 14:1	Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity.	repentance
0	Hosea 14:3	Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride on horses; and we will say no more, &lsquo;Our God,&rsquo; to the work of our hands. In you the orphan finds mercy.&rdquo;	orphans
0	Hosea 14:4	I will heal their apostasy; I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them.	healing,sickness
0	Hosea 14:5-8	I will be like the dew to Israel; he shall blossom like the lily; he shall take root like the trees of Lebanon; his shoots shall spread out; his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon. They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow; they shall flourish like the grain; they shall blossom like the vine; their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon. O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen cypress; from me comes your fruit.	blessing
0	Hosea 14:8	O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen cypress; from me comes your fruit.	fruitfulness
0	Hosea 2:19	And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy.	marriage
0	Hosea 2:20	I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the Lord.	faithfulness
0	Hosea 3:1	And the Lord said to me, &ldquo;Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins.&rdquo;	almighty
0	Hosea 3:5	Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God, and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days.	goodness
0	Hosea 4:1	Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land;	mercy
0	Hosea 4:11	Whoredom, wine, and new wine, which take away the understanding.	addiction,self-control,wine
0	Hosea 4:1-19	Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land; there is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break all bounds, and bloodshed follows bloodshed. Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens, and even the fish of the sea are taken away. Yet let no one contend, and let none accuse, for with you is my contention, O priest. You shall stumble by day; the prophet also shall stumble with you by night; and I will destroy your mother. ...	acknowledging
0	Hosea 4:2	There is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break all bounds, and bloodshed follows bloodshed.	lying
0	Hosea 4:6	My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.	understanding
0	Hosea 6:1	&ldquo;Come, let us return to the Lord; for he has torn us, that he may heal us; he has struck us down, and he will bind us up.	sickness
0	Hosea 6:11	For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed, when I restore the fortunes of my people.	harvest
0	Hosea 6:2	After two days he will revive us; on the third day he will raise us up, that we may live before him.	prophecy
0	Hosea 6:6	For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.	mercy,sacrifice
0	Hosea 7:4	They are all adulterers; they are like a heated oven whose baker ceases to stir the fire, from the kneading of the dough until it is leavened.	bread
0	Hosea 8:4	They made kings, but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction.	idols
0	Isaiah 1:10-17	Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom! Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of Gomorrah! &ldquo;What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the Lord; I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats. &ldquo;When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts? Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations&mdash; I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them. ...	acknowledging
0	Isaiah 1:13	Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations&mdash; I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly.	sabbath
0	Isaiah 1:1-31	The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the Lord has spoken: &ldquo;Children have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know, my people do not understand.&rdquo; Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They have forsaken the Lord, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged. Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. ...	body,easter,eternal-life,faithfulness,gossip,orphans,repentance,sacrifice,serving,spirit,work
0	Isaiah 1:14-26	Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you; even though you make many prayers, I will not listen; your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil, learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. &ldquo;Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. ...	christmas
0	Isaiah 1:16	Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil,	evil,purification
0	Isaiah 1:17	Learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause.	learning,orphans,poverty,protection,widows
0	Isaiah 1:18	&ldquo;Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool.	forgiveness,reconciliation,sin
0	Isaiah 1:19	If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;	blessing,food,obedience
0	Isaiah 1:19-20	If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land; but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword; for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo;	blood
0	Isaiah 1:23	Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them.	orphans,widows
0	Isaiah 10:1	Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees, and the writers who keep writing oppression,	widows
0	Isaiah 10:12	When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, he will punish the speech of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes.	pride
0	Isaiah 10:1-34	Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees, and the writers who keep writing oppression, to turn aside the needy from justice and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey! What will you do on the day of punishment, in the ruin that will come from afar? To whom will you flee for help, and where will you leave your wealth? Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners or fall among the slain. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still. Ah, Assyria, the rod of my anger; the staff in their hands is my fury! ...	materialism
0	Isaiah 10:2	To turn aside the needy from justice and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey!	orphans,widows
0	Isaiah 11:1	There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit.	christmas,messiah,prophecy
0	Isaiah 11:2	And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord.	messiah,spirit
0	Isaiah 11:2-9	And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth; and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together; and a little child shall lead them. ...	messiah
0	Isaiah 11:3	And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear,	beauty
0	Isaiah 11:6-9	The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together; and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze; their young shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the adder's den. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea.	understanding
0	Isaiah 12:1-6	You will say in that day: &ldquo;I will give thanks to you, O Lord, for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away, that you might comfort me. &ldquo;Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be afraid; for the Lord God is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.&rdquo; With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. And you will say in that day: &ldquo;Give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples, proclaim that his name is exalted. &ldquo;Sing praises to the Lord, for he has done gloriously; let this be made known in all the earth. ...	praise
0	Isaiah 12:2	&ldquo;Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be afraid; for the Lord God is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.&rdquo;	courage,fear,peace,strength,trust,weakness,worrying
0	Isaiah 12:3	With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation.	joy
0	Isaiah 12:4	And you will say in that day: &ldquo;Give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples, proclaim that his name is exalted.	evangelism
0	Isaiah 12:5	&ldquo;Sing praises to the Lord, for he has done gloriously; let this be made known in all the earth.	singing,worship
0	Isaiah 12:6	Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel.&rdquo;	joy
0	Isaiah 13:11	I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless.	pride,punishment
0	Isaiah 13:12	I will make people more rare than fine gold, and mankind than the gold of Ophir.	materialism
0	Isaiah 14:12	&ldquo;How you are fallen from heaven, O Day Star, son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low!	awe,devil,valuable
0	Isaiah 14:12-14	&ldquo;How you are fallen from heaven, O Day Star, son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low! You said in your heart, &lsquo;I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.&rsquo;	pride
0	Isaiah 14:12-15	&ldquo;How you are fallen from heaven, O Day Star, son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low! You said in your heart, &lsquo;I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.&rsquo; But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit.	devil,pride
0	Isaiah 14:13-14	You said in your heart, &lsquo;I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.&rsquo;	pride
0	Isaiah 14:14	I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.&rsquo;	pride
0	Isaiah 14:27	For the Lord of hosts has purposed, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back?	planning
0	Isaiah 14:3	When the Lord has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve,	rest
0	Isaiah 14:30	And the firstborn of the poor will graze, and the needy lie down in safety; but I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant it will slay.	safety
0	Isaiah 14:3-4	When the Lord has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve, you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon: &ldquo;How the oppressor has ceased, the insolent fury ceased!	rest
0	Isaiah 14:9	Sheol beneath is stirred up to meet you when you come; it rouses the shades to greet you, all who were leaders of the earth; it raises from their thrones all who were kings of the nations.	hell
0	Isaiah 16:12	And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.	idols
0	Isaiah 16:6	We have heard of the pride of Moab&mdash; how proud he is!&mdash; of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence; in his idle boasting he is not right.	pride
0	Isaiah 16:9	Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sibmah; I drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for over your summer fruit and your harvest the shout has ceased.	harvest
0	Isaiah 17:10-11	For you have forgotten the God of your salvation and have not remembered the Rock of your refuge; therefore, though you plant pleasant plants and sow the vine-branch of a stranger, though you make them grow on the day that you plant them, and make them blossom in the morning that you sow, yet the harvest will flee away in a day of grief and incurable pain.	food
0	Isaiah 17:11	Though you make them grow on the day that you plant them, and make them blossom in the morning that you sow, yet the harvest will flee away in a day of grief and incurable pain.	harvest
0	Isaiah 19:22	And the Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the Lord, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.	healing,repentance
0	Isaiah 2:11	The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of men shall be humbled, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day.	pride
0	Isaiah 2:12	For the Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up&mdash;and it shall be brought low;	pride
0	Isaiah 2:1-3:26	The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills; and all the nations shall flow to it, and many peoples shall come, and say: &ldquo;Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths.&rdquo; For out of Zion shall go the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. ...	materialism
0	Isaiah 2:20	In that day mankind will cast away their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for themselves to worship, to the moles and to the bats,	idols
0	Isaiah 2:22	Stop regarding man in whose nostrils is breath, for of what account is he?	trust
0	Isaiah 2:4	He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore.	mediator,peace
0	Isaiah 2:8	Their land is filled with idols; they bow down to the work of their hands, to what their own fingers have made.	idols
0	Isaiah 21:13-17	The oracle concerning Arabia. In the thickets in Arabia you will lodge, O caravans of Dedanites. To the thirsty bring water; meet the fugitive with bread, O inhabitants of the land of Tema. For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the press of battle. For thus the Lord said to me, &ldquo;Within a year, according to the years of a hired worker, all the glory of Kedar will come to an end. And the remainder of the archers of the mighty men of the sons of Kedar will be few, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken.&rdquo;	comforter
0	Isaiah 23:9	The Lord of hosts has purposed it, to defile the pompous pride of all glory, to dishonor all the honored of the earth.	pride
0	Isaiah 25:1	O Lord, you are my God; I will exalt you; I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure.	faithfulness,praise,reliability,worship
0	Isaiah 25:4	For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat; for the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall,	poverty
0	Isaiah 25:6	On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined.	wine
0	Isaiah 25:6-8	On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken.	reconciliation
0	Isaiah 25:6-9	On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, &ldquo;Behold, this is our God; we have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the Lord; we have waited for him; let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Isaiah 25:8	He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken.	death,easter,resurrection
0	Isaiah 26:12	O Lord, you will ordain peace for us, for you have indeed done for us all our works.	peace
0	Isaiah 26:19	Your dead shall live; their bodies shall rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and sing for joy! For your dew is a dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead.	easter,resurrection
0	Isaiah 26:3	You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.	children,contentment,courage,encouragement,goodness,learning,life,mind,peace,promises,rest,sadness,safety,thoughts,trust,worrying
0	Isaiah 26:3-4	You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock.	trust
0	Isaiah 26:4	Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock.	god
0	Isaiah 26:7	The path of the righteous is level; you make level the way of the righteous.	contentment
0	Isaiah 26:9	My soul yearns for you in the night; my spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.	learning
0	Isaiah 28:1-29	Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine! Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong; like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand. The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot; and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like a first-ripe fig before the summer: when someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand. In that day the Lord of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his people, ...	beauty
0	Isaiah 28:1-29:24	Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine! Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong; like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand. The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot; and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like a first-ripe fig before the summer: when someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand. In that day the Lord of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his people, ...	planning
0	Isaiah 28:16	Therefore thus says the Lord God, &ldquo;Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation: &lsquo;Whoever believes will not be in haste.&rsquo;	redeemer
0	Isaiah 28:17	And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plumb line; and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and waters will overwhelm the shelter.&rdquo;	righteousness
0	Isaiah 28:29	This also comes from the Lord of hosts; he is wonderful in counsel and excellent in wisdom.	planning,wisdom
0	Isaiah 28:7	These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink, they are swallowed by wine, they stagger with strong drink, they reel in vision, they stumble in giving judgment.	self-control,wine
0	Isaiah 29:11-30:10	And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, &ldquo;Read this,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;I cannot, for it is sealed.&rdquo; And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, &ldquo;Read this,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;I cannot read.&rdquo; And the Lord said: &ldquo;Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men, therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.&rdquo; Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, &ldquo;Who sees us? Who knows us?&rdquo; ...	materialism
0	Isaiah 29:12	And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, &ldquo;Read this,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;I cannot read.&rdquo;	almighty
0	Isaiah 29:12-30:10	And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, &ldquo;Read this,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;I cannot read.&rdquo; And the Lord said: &ldquo;Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men, therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.&rdquo; Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, &ldquo;Who sees us? Who knows us?&rdquo; You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, &ldquo;He did not make me&rdquo;; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, &ldquo;He has no understanding&rdquo;? ...	christmas
0	Isaiah 29:13	And the Lord said: &ldquo;Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men,	worship
0	Isaiah 29:13-16	And the Lord said: &ldquo;Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men, therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.&rdquo; Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, &ldquo;Who sees us? Who knows us?&rdquo; You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, &ldquo;He did not make me&rdquo;; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, &ldquo;He has no understanding&rdquo;?	worship
0	Isaiah 29:14-16	Therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.&rdquo; Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, &ldquo;Who sees us? Who knows us?&rdquo; You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, &ldquo;He did not make me&rdquo;; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, &ldquo;He has no understanding&rdquo;?	wisdom
0	Isaiah 29:14-19	Therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.&rdquo; Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, &ldquo;Who sees us? Who knows us?&rdquo; You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, &ldquo;He did not make me&rdquo;; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, &ldquo;He has no understanding&rdquo;? Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest? In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see. ...	poverty
0	Isaiah 3:11	Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him.	judgment
0	Isaiah 3:16-17	The Lord said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks, glancing wantonly with their eyes, mincing along as they go, tinkling with their feet, therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the heads of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will lay bare their secret parts.	pride
0	Isaiah 3:24	Instead of perfume there will be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a skirt of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty.	beauty
0	Isaiah 3:9	For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil on themselves.	receiving
0	Isaiah 30:15	For thus said the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, &ldquo;In returning and rest you shall be saved; in quietness and in trust shall be your strength.&rdquo; But you were unwilling,	dependence,repentance,rest,strength,weakness
0	Isaiah 30:18	Therefore the Lord waits to be gracious to you, and therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to you. For the Lord is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him.	compassion,mercy,patience
0	Isaiah 30:20	And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher.	bread
0	Isaiah 30:22	Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, &ldquo;Be gone!&rdquo;	idols
0	Isaiah 31:7	For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have sinfully made for you.	idols
0	Isaiah 32:17	And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever.	peace,righteousness
0	Isaiah 32:17-18	And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever. My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.	beauty,safety
0	Isaiah 32:17-33:5	And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever. My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places. And it will hail when the forest falls down, and the city will be utterly laid low. Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the donkey range free. Ah, you destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you. ...	christmas
0	Isaiah 32:18	My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.	peace
0	Isaiah 32:7	As for the scoundrel&mdash;his devices are evil; he plans wicked schemes to ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right.	lying
0	Isaiah 32:8	But he who is noble plans noble things, and on noble things he stands.	generosity,planning
0	Isaiah 33:1-24	Ah, you destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you. O Lord, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble. At the tumultuous noise peoples flee; when you lift yourself up, nations are scattered, and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, it is leapt upon. The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness, ...	beauty
0	Isaiah 33:15	He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking on evil,	honesty,temptation
0	Isaiah 33:15-16	He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking on evil, he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him; his water will be sure.	food
0	Isaiah 33:15-17	He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking on evil, he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him; his water will be sure. Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty; they will see a land that stretches afar.	righteousness
0	Isaiah 33:1-6	Ah, you destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you. O Lord, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble. At the tumultuous noise peoples flee; when you lift yourself up, nations are scattered, and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, it is leapt upon. The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness, ...	kingdom
0	Isaiah 33:17-24	Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty; they will see a land that stretches afar. Your heart will muse on the terror: &ldquo;Where is he who counted, where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers?&rdquo; You will see no more the insolent people, the people of an obscure speech that you cannot comprehend, stammering in a tongue that you cannot understand. Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts! Your eyes will see Jerusalem, an untroubled habitation, an immovable tent, whose stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken. But there the Lord in majesty will be for us a place of broad rivers and streams, where no galley with oars can go, nor majestic ship can pass. ...	kingdom
0	Isaiah 33:2	O Lord, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble.	strength
0	Isaiah 33:22	For the Lord is our judge; the Lord is our lawgiver; the Lord is our king; he will save us.	god,law
0	Isaiah 35:10	And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.	joy,praise,singing
0	Isaiah 35:3	Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees.	blood
0	Isaiah 35:4	Say to those who have an anxious heart, &ldquo;Be strong; fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you.&rdquo;	fear,worrying
0	Isaiah 35:5-6	Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped; then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy. For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;	messiah
0	Isaiah 35:8	And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the Way of Holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way; even if they are fools, they shall not go astray.	holiness
0	Isaiah 37:16	&ldquo;O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, enthroned above the cherubim, you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth.	creation
0	Isaiah 37:19	And have cast their gods into the fire. For they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.	idols
0	Isaiah 38:14	Like a swallow or a crane I chirp; I moan like a dove. My eyes are weary with looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed; be my pledge of safety!	speaking
0	Isaiah 38:18	For Sheol does not thank you; death does not praise you; those who go down to the pit do not hope for your faithfulness.	awe
0	Isaiah 38:19	The living, the living, he thanks you, as I do this day; the father makes known to the children your faithfulness.	children
0	Isaiah 4:2	In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel.	beauty,pride
0	Isaiah 40:10	Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.	reward
0	Isaiah 40:11	He will tend his flock like a shepherd; he will gather the lambs in his arms; he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.	gentleness
0	Isaiah 40:1-31	Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries: &ldquo;In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo; ...	strength
0	Isaiah 40:1-42:25	Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries: &ldquo;In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo; ...	worrying
0	Isaiah 40:14-22	Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as the dust on the scales; behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him? ...	kingdom
0	Isaiah 40:19	An idol! A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains.	idols
0	Isaiah 40:2	Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins.	the-word
0	Isaiah 40:20	He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot; he seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move.	idols
0	Isaiah 40:21-23	Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in; who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness.	kingdom
0	Isaiah 40:22	It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in;	following
0	Isaiah 40:26	Lift up your eyes on high and see: who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power not one is missing.	creation
0	Isaiah 40:28	Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary; his understanding is unsearchable.	creation,god,understanding,wisdom
0	Isaiah 40:28-31	Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary; his understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted; but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.	rest,strength,weakness
0	Isaiah 40:29	He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength.	dependence,life,promises,strength,weakness
0	Isaiah 40:29-31	He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted; but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.	health,promises,rest,sickness,weakness
0	Isaiah 40:3	A voice cries: &ldquo;In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make straight in the desert a highway for our God.	messiah,redeemer
0	Isaiah 40:31	But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.	addiction,blessing,dependence,encouragement,faith,freedom,god,grace,health,hope,life,patience,promises,rest,sadness,strength,trust,weakness
0	Isaiah 40:3-42:7	A voice cries: &ldquo;In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo; A voice says, &ldquo;Cry!&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;What shall I cry?&rdquo; All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it; surely the people are grass. ...	courage
0	Isaiah 40:3-5	A voice cries: &ldquo;In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Isaiah 40:6-8	A voice says, &ldquo;Cry!&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;What shall I cry?&rdquo; All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it; surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever.	materialism
0	Isaiah 40:8	The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever.	beauty,god,the-word
0	Isaiah 41:10	Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.	blessing,conversion,courage,death,encouragement,fear,god,gratitude,healing,health,hope,life,overcoming,peace,promises,protection,sadness,sickness,strength,thoughts,trust,weakness
0	Isaiah 41:10-13	Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded; those who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish. You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them; those who war against you shall be as nothing at all. For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, &ldquo;Fear not, I am the one who helps you.&rdquo;	worrying
0	Isaiah 41:1-29	Listen to me in silence, O coastlands; let the peoples renew their strength; let them approach, then let them speak; let us together draw near for judgment. Who stirred up one from the east whom victory meets at every step? He gives up nations before him, so that he tramples kings underfoot; he makes them like dust with his sword, like driven stubble with his bow. He pursues them and passes on safely, by paths his feet have not trod. Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the Lord, the first, and with the last; I am he. The coastlands have seen and are afraid; the ends of the earth tremble; they have drawn near and come. ...	safety
0	Isaiah 41:13	For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, &ldquo;Fear not, I am the one who helps you.&rdquo;	blessing,fear,overcoming
0	Isaiah 41:17	When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst, I the Lord will answer them; I the God of Israel will not forsake them.	blessing,poverty,safety
0	Isaiah 41:17-20	When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst, I the Lord will answer them; I the God of Israel will not forsake them. I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water. I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the olive. I will set in the desert the cypress, the plane and the pine together, that they may see and know, may consider and understand together, that the hand of the Lord has done this, the Holy One of Israel has created it.	transformation
0	Isaiah 41:4	Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the Lord, the first, and with the last; I am he.	redeemer
0	Isaiah 42:10	Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants.	singing
0	Isaiah 42:10-12	Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants. Let the desert and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits; let the habitants of Sela sing for joy, let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let them give glory to the Lord, and declare his praise in the coastlands.	praise
0	Isaiah 42:1-4	Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street; a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth; and the coastlands wait for his law.	messiah
0	Isaiah 42:16	And I will lead the blind in a way that they do not know, in paths that they have not known I will guide them. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them.	light
0	Isaiah 42:17	They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, &ldquo;You are our gods.&rdquo;	idols
0	Isaiah 42:1-9	Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street; a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth; and the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God, the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it: ...	kingdom
0	Isaiah 42:2-3	He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street; a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring forth justice.	gentleness
0	Isaiah 42:5	Thus says God, the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it:	creation
0	Isaiah 42:6	&ldquo;I am the Lord; I have called you in righteousness; I will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations,	light
0	Isaiah 42:6-8	&ldquo;I am the Lord; I have called you in righteousness; I will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. I am the Lord; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.	world
0	Isaiah 42:8	I am the Lord; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.	almighty,idols,mediator
0	Isaiah 43:1	But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: &ldquo;Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine.	calling,fear
0	Isaiah 43:10	&ldquo;You are my witnesses,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me.	redeemer,relationships
0	Isaiah 43:10-13	&ldquo;You are my witnesses,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me. I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no savior. I declared and saved and proclaimed, when there was no strange god among you; and you are my witnesses,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;and I am God. Also henceforth I am he; there is none who can deliver from my hand; I work, and who can turn it back?&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Isaiah 43:11	I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no savior.	redeemer
0	Isaiah 43:1-3	But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: &ldquo;Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you.	fear,protection,worrying
0	Isaiah 43:14-21	Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: &ldquo;For your sake I send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice. I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.&rdquo; Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters, who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior; they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick: &ldquo;Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old. ...	faithfulness
0	Isaiah 43:18-19	&ldquo;Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old. Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.	encouragement
0	Isaiah 43:19	Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.	transformation
0	Isaiah 43:2	When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you.	encouragement,promises,protection,suffering,trust
0	Isaiah 43:21	The people whom I formed for myself that they might declare my praise.	praise
0	Isaiah 43:2-4	When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you. Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life.	savior
0	Isaiah 43:25	&ldquo;I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins.	forgiveness
0	Isaiah 43:25-26	&ldquo;I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Put me in remembrance; let us argue together; set forth your case, that you may be proved right.	forgiveness
0	Isaiah 43:4	Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life.	love
0	Isaiah 43:7	Everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made.&rdquo;	creation
0	Isaiah 44:13-19	The carpenter stretches a line; he marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes and marks it with a compass. He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house. He cuts down cedars, or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it. Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and warms himself; he kindles a fire and bakes bread. Also he makes a god and worships it; he makes it an idol and falls down before it. Half of it he burns in the fire. Over the half he eats meat; he roasts it and is satisfied. Also he warms himself and says, &ldquo;Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire!&rdquo; And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and says, &ldquo;Deliver me, for you are my god!&rdquo; ...	idols
0	Isaiah 44:17	And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and says, &ldquo;Deliver me, for you are my god!&rdquo;	idols
0	Isaiah 44:19	No one considers, nor is there knowledge or discernment to say, &ldquo;Half of it I burned in the fire; I also baked bread on its coals; I roasted meat and have eaten. And shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood?&rdquo;	bread
0	Isaiah 44:22	I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist; return to me, for I have redeemed you.	repentance
0	Isaiah 44:23	Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it; shout, O depths of the earth; break forth into singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it! For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and will be glorified in Israel.	singing
0	Isaiah 44:24	Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb: &ldquo;I am the Lord, who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself,	creation
0	Isaiah 44:3	For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants.	blessing
0	Isaiah 44:3-6	For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants. They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams. This one will say, &lsquo;I am the Lord's,&rsquo; another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on his hand, &lsquo;The Lord's,&rsquo; and name himself by the name of Israel.&rdquo; Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: &ldquo;I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god.	family
0	Isaiah 44:5	This one will say, &lsquo;I am the Lord's,&rsquo; another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on his hand, &lsquo;The Lord's,&rsquo; and name himself by the name of Israel.&rdquo;	equipment
0	Isaiah 44:6	Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: &ldquo;I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god.	god,jesus,redeemer
0	Isaiah 44:6-20	Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: &ldquo;I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come, and what will happen. Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is there a God besides me? There is no Rock; I know not any.&rdquo; All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? ...	idols
0	Isaiah 44:9-12	All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together. The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint.	idols
0	Isaiah 45:1	Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped, to subdue nations before him and to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates may not be closed:	almighty
0	Isaiah 45:11-12	Thus says the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, and the one who formed him: &ldquo;Ask me of things to come; will you command me concerning my children and the work of my hands? I made the earth and created man on it; it was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host.	creation
0	Isaiah 45:12	I made the earth and created man on it; it was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host.	creation
0	Isaiah 45:12-18	I made the earth and created man on it; it was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host. I have stirred him up in righteousness, and I will make all his ways level; he shall build my city and set my exiles free, not for price or reward,&rdquo; says the Lord of hosts. Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;The wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush, and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over to you and be yours; they shall follow you; they shall come over in chains and bow down to you. They will plead with you, saying: &lsquo;Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no god besides him.&rsquo;&rdquo; Truly, you are a God who hides himself, O God of Israel, the Savior. All of them are put to shame and confounded; the makers of idols go in confusion together. ...	worrying
0	Isaiah 45:18	For thus says the Lord, who created the heavens (he is God!), who formed the earth and made it (he established it; he did not create it empty, he formed it to be inhabited!): &ldquo;I am the Lord, and there is no other.	acknowledging,creation,heaven
0	Isaiah 45:21	Declare and present your case; let them take counsel together! Who told this long ago? Who declared it of old? Was it not I, the Lord? And there is no other god besides me, a righteous God and a Savior; there is none besides me.	god
0	Isaiah 45:22	&ldquo;Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other.	evangelism
0	Isaiah 45:22-24	&ldquo;Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other. By myself I have sworn; from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: &lsquo;To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance.&rsquo; &ldquo;Only in the Lord, it shall be said of me, are righteousness and strength; to him shall come and be ashamed all who were incensed against him.	kingdom
0	Isaiah 45:23	By myself I have sworn; from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: &lsquo;To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance.&rsquo;	redeemer
0	Isaiah 45:7	I form light and create darkness, I make well-being and create calamity, I am the Lord, who does all these things.	evil,light
0	Isaiah 46:10	Declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, &lsquo;My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,&rsquo;	planning,prophecy
0	Isaiah 46:3-4	&ldquo;Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been borne by me from before your birth, carried from the womb; even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save.	fruitfulness
0	Isaiah 46:4	Even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save.	god,protection
0	Isaiah 46:9-10	Remember the former things of old; for I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, &lsquo;My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Isaiah 46:9-11	Remember the former things of old; for I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, &lsquo;My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,&rsquo; calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass; I have purposed, and I will do it.	kingdom
0	Isaiah 47:1-3	Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no more be called tender and delicate. Take the millstones and grind flour, put off your veil, strip off your robe, uncover your legs, pass through the rivers. Your nakedness shall be uncovered, and your disgrace shall be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will spare no one.	clothing
0	Isaiah 47:14	Behold, they are like stubble; the fire consumes them; they cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame. No coal for warming oneself is this, no fire to sit before!	hell
0	Isaiah 47:4	Our Redeemer&mdash;the Lord of hosts is his name&mdash; is the Holy One of Israel.	redeemer
0	Isaiah 48:1-50:11	Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and who came from the waters of Judah, who swear by the name of the Lord and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right. For they call themselves after the holy city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; the Lord of hosts is his name. &ldquo;The former things I declared of old; they went out from my mouth, and I announced them; then suddenly I did them, and they came to pass. Because I know that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew and your forehead brass, I declared them to you from of old, before they came to pass I announced them to you, lest you should say, &lsquo;My idol did them, my carved image and my metal image commanded them.&rsquo; ...	addiction
0	Isaiah 48:22	&ldquo;There is no peace,&rdquo; says the Lord, &ldquo;for the wicked.&rdquo;	peace,rest
0	Isaiah 48:9	&ldquo;For my name's sake I defer my anger, for the sake of my praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut you off.	anger
0	Isaiah 49:1	Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. The Lord called me from the womb, from the body of my mother he named my name.	calling
0	Isaiah 49:10	They shall not hunger or thirst, neither scorching wind nor sun shall strike them, for he who has pity on them will lead them, and by springs of water will guide them.	compassion
0	Isaiah 49:13	Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth; break forth, O mountains, into singing! For the Lord has comforted his people and will have compassion on his afflicted.	compassion,singing
0	Isaiah 49:14-16	But Zion said, &ldquo;The Lord has forsaken me; my Lord has forgotten me.&rdquo; &ldquo;Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.	world
0	Isaiah 49:15	&ldquo;Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.	compassion,equipment
0	Isaiah 49:15-16	&ldquo;Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.	children,compassion,orphans
0	Isaiah 49:15-25	&ldquo;Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me. Your builders make haste; your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you. Lift up your eyes around and see; they all gather, they come to you. As I live, declares the Lord, you shall put them all on as an ornament; you shall bind them on as a bride does. &ldquo;Surely your waste and your desolate places and your devastated land&mdash; surely now you will be too narrow for your inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up will be far away. ...	family
0	Isaiah 49:25	For thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be rescued, for I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children.	promises,safety
0	Isaiah 49:5-6	And now the Lord says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him; and that Israel might be gathered to him&mdash; for I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength&mdash; he says: &ldquo;It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel; I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth.&rdquo;	world
0	Isaiah 49:6	He says: &ldquo;It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel; I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth.&rdquo;	light,messiah
0	Isaiah 49:7	Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel and his Holy One, to one deeply despised, abhorred by the nation, the servant of rulers: &ldquo;Kings shall see and arise; princes, and they shall prostrate themselves; because of the Lord, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Isaiah 5:11	Woe to those who rise early in the morning, that they may run after strong drink, who tarry late into the evening as wine inflames them!	addiction,dependence,self-control,wine
0	Isaiah 5:1-30	Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard: My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill. He dug it and cleared it of stones, and planted it with choice vines; he built a watchtower in the midst of it, and hewed out a wine vat in it; and he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard. What more was there to do for my vineyard, that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes? And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge, and it shall be devoured; I will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down. ...	selfishness
0	Isaiah 5:14	Therefore Sheol has enlarged its appetite and opened its mouth beyond measure, and the nobility of Jerusalem and her multitude will go down, her revelers and he who exults in her.	hell
0	Isaiah 5:20	Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!	evil,goodness,selfishness
0	Isaiah 5:21	Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, and shrewd in their own sight!	wisdom
0	Isaiah 5:22	Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine, and valiant men in mixing strong drink,	wine
0	Isaiah 5:8	Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, until there is no more room, and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land.	selfishness
0	Isaiah 50:6	I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard; I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting.	messiah
0	Isaiah 51:11	And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.	sadness
0	Isaiah 51:7-53:5	&ldquo;Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings. For the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool; but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations.&rdquo; Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake, as in days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over? And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. ...	addiction,courage
0	Isaiah 52:10	The Lord has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.	god
0	Isaiah 52:11	Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the Lord.	holiness
0	Isaiah 52:13-15	Behold, my servant shall act wisely; he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you&mdash; his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind&mdash; so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand.	kingdom
0	Isaiah 52:13-53:12	Behold, my servant shall act wisely; he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you&mdash; his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind&mdash; so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. ...	crucifixion,messiah,suffering
0	Isaiah 52:14	As many were astonished at you&mdash; his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind&mdash;	messiah
0	Isaiah 52:7	How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, &ldquo;Your God reigns.&rdquo;	beauty,peace,reconciliation
0	Isaiah 52:7-13	How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, &ldquo;Your God reigns.&rdquo; The voice of your watchmen&mdash;they lift up their voice; together they sing for joy; for eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion. Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people; he has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the Lord. ...	kingdom
0	Isaiah 53:1	Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?	messiah
0	Isaiah 53:11	Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied; by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities.	righteousness
0	Isaiah 53:1-12	Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. ...	christmas,easter,healing,messiah,persecution,prophecy,reconciliation,resurrection,sickness
0	Isaiah 53:12	Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors.	awe,messiah,prophecy,reliability
0	Isaiah 53:1-8	Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. ...	savior
0	Isaiah 53:2-7	For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned&mdash;every one&mdash;to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. ...	beauty
0	Isaiah 53:3	He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.	messiah,prophecy,suffering
0	Isaiah 53:4	Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted.	jesus,messiah,sadness,sickness,suffering,thoughts
0	Isaiah 53:4-5	Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed.	healing,health,sickness
0	Isaiah 53:4-6	Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned&mdash;every one&mdash;to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.	crucifixion,sadness
0	Isaiah 53:5	But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed.	easter,forgiveness,healing,health,jesus,messiah,peace,resurrection,sickness
0	Isaiah 53:5-54:17	But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned&mdash;every one&mdash;to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. ...	courage
0	Isaiah 53:6	All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned&mdash;every one&mdash;to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.	awe,messiah,understanding
0	Isaiah 53:7	He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth.	gentleness,messiah,self-control
0	Isaiah 53:9	And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth.	messiah,prophecy,reliability
0	Isaiah 54:1	&ldquo;Sing, O barren one, who did not bear; break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married,&rdquo; says the Lord.	fruitfulness,singing
0	Isaiah 54:10	For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed,&rdquo; says the Lord, who has compassion on you.	compassion,covenant,peace
0	Isaiah 54:13	All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children.	children,peace,promises
0	Isaiah 54:17	No weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and you shall confute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord and their vindication from me, declares the Lord.&rdquo;	evil,faithfulness,fear,healing,promises,protection,safety
0	Isaiah 54:4	&ldquo;Fear not, for you will not be ashamed; be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced; for you will forget the shame of your youth, and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more.	fear,widows
0	Isaiah 54:5	For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole earth he is called.	marriage,redeemer,relationships
0	Isaiah 54:5-56:5	For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole earth he is called. For the Lord has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God. For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you. In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have compassion on you,&rdquo; says the Lord, your Redeemer. &ldquo;This is like the days of Noah to me: as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, and will not rebuke you. ...	family
0	Isaiah 55:1	&ldquo;Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.	wine
0	Isaiah 55:10-11	&ldquo;For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it.	healing,the-word
0	Isaiah 55:11	So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it.	reliability,speaking,the-word
0	Isaiah 55:1-13	&ldquo;Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear, and come to me; hear, that your soul may live; and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you, because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. ...	addiction,calling,food,poverty
0	Isaiah 55:12	&ldquo;For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace; the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.	beauty,creation,joy,peace,singing
0	Isaiah 55:12-13	&ldquo;For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace; the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress; instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle; and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.&rdquo;	world
0	Isaiah 55:1-59:21	&ldquo;Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear, and come to me; hear, that your soul may live; and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you, because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. ...	planning
0	Isaiah 55:2	Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food.	bread,health,planning
0	Isaiah 55:6	&ldquo;Seek the Lord while he may be found; call upon him while he is near;	seeking
0	Isaiah 55:6-13	&ldquo;Seek the Lord while he may be found; call upon him while he is near; let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. &ldquo;For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, ...	world
0	Isaiah 55:6-7	&ldquo;Seek the Lord while he may be found; call upon him while he is near; let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.	repentance,seeking
0	Isaiah 55:7	Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.	conversion,forgiveness,repentance,thoughts
0	Isaiah 55:8	For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord.	god,planning,thoughts
0	Isaiah 55:8-9	For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.	desires
0	Isaiah 55:9	For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.	planning,understanding
0	Isaiah 56:1	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Keep justice, and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my deliverance be revealed.	righteousness
0	Isaiah 56:11	The dogs have a mighty appetite; they never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no understanding; they have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain, one and all.	greed
0	Isaiah 56:12	&ldquo;Come,&rdquo; they say, &ldquo;let me get wine; let us fill ourselves with strong drink; and tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure.&rdquo;	wine
0	Isaiah 56:2	Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Isaiah 56:4-7	For thus says the Lord: &ldquo;To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters; I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. &ldquo;And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord, to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my covenant&mdash; these I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer; their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Isaiah 56:7	These I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer; their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples.&rdquo;	worship
0	Isaiah 57:1-2	The righteous man perishes, and no one lays it to heart; devout men are taken away, while no one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity; he enters into peace; they rest in their beds who walk in their uprightness.	death,rest
0	Isaiah 57:15	For thus says the One who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy: &ldquo;I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite.	god,holiness,humility
0	Isaiah 57:16	For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made.	anger
0	Isaiah 57:17	Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.	anger,greed
0	Isaiah 57:18	I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners,	healing
0	Isaiah 57:18-19	I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners, creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace, to the far and to the near,&rdquo; says the Lord, &ldquo;and I will heal him.	healing
0	Isaiah 57:19	Creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace, to the far and to the near,&rdquo; says the Lord, &ldquo;and I will heal him.	healing,reconciliation
0	Isaiah 57:21	There is no peace,&rdquo; says my God, &ldquo;for the wicked.&rdquo;	peace
0	Isaiah 58:11	And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.	fruitfulness,health
0	Isaiah 58:1-14	&ldquo;Cry aloud; do not hold back; lift up your voice like a trumpet; declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins. Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the judgment of their God; they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near to God. &lsquo;Why have we fasted, and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it?&rsquo; Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high. Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the Lord? ...	easter,fasting,poverty,serving
0	Isaiah 58:13	&ldquo;If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable; if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly;	sabbath
0	Isaiah 58:13-14	&ldquo;If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable; if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly; then you shall take delight in the Lord, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth; I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.&rdquo;	rest,sabbath
0	Isaiah 58:3	&lsquo;Why have we fasted, and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it?&rsquo; Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers.	fasting
0	Isaiah 58:3-7	&lsquo;Why have we fasted, and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it?&rsquo; Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high. Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the Lord? &ldquo;Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?	fasting
0	Isaiah 58:5-8	Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the Lord? &ldquo;Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh? Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily; your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard.	fasting
0	Isaiah 58:6	&ldquo;Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?	fasting,promises,slavery
0	Isaiah 58:6-14	&ldquo;Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh? Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily; your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, &lsquo;Here I am.&rsquo; If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness, if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday. ...	righteousness
0	Isaiah 58:6-7	&ldquo;Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?	fasting,freedom,generosity
0	Isaiah 58:7	Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?	clothing,orphans
0	Isaiah 58:8	Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily; your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard.	blessing,healing,health,light
0	Isaiah 58:9-14	Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, &lsquo;Here I am.&rsquo; If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness, if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday. And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail. And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt; you shall raise up the foundations of many generations; you shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in. &ldquo;If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable; if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly; ...	community
0	Isaiah 59:1-2	Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear; but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear.	reconciliation,sin
0	Isaiah 59:14	Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away; for truth has stumbled in the public squares, and uprightness cannot enter.	honesty
0	Isaiah 59:1-61:11	Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear; but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies; your tongue mutters wickedness. No one enters suit justly; no one goes to law honestly; they rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity. They hatch adders' eggs; they weave the spider's web; he who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched. ...	poverty
0	Isaiah 59:2	But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear.	almighty,prayer,sin
0	Isaiah 59:20-21	&ldquo;And a Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression,&rdquo; declares the Lord. &ldquo;And as for me, this is my covenant with them,&rdquo; says the Lord: &ldquo;My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,&rdquo; says the Lord, &ldquo;from this time forth and forevermore.&rdquo;	christmas
0	Isaiah 59:21	&ldquo;And as for me, this is my covenant with them,&rdquo; says the Lord: &ldquo;My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,&rdquo; says the Lord, &ldquo;from this time forth and forevermore.&rdquo;	covenant
0	Isaiah 6:10	Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed.&rdquo;	conversion,heart,repentance
0	Isaiah 6:1-13	In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called to another and said: &ldquo;Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory!&rdquo; And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said: &ldquo;Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts!&rdquo; ...	holiness
0	Isaiah 6:2	Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.	angels
0	Isaiah 6:3	And one called to another and said: &ldquo;Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory!&rdquo;	holiness
0	Isaiah 6:5	And I said: &ldquo;Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts!&rdquo;	humility
0	Isaiah 6:8	And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, &ldquo;Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?&rdquo; Then I said, &ldquo;Here am I! Send me.&rdquo;	calling,evangelism
0	Isaiah 6:9-10	And he said, &ldquo;Go, and say to this people: &ldquo;&lsquo;Keep on hearing, but do not understand; keep on seeing, but do not perceive.&rsquo; Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Isaiah 60:1	Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you.	light
0	Isaiah 60:1-61:11	Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you. And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. Lift up your eyes all around, and see; they all gather together, they come to you; your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip. Then you shall see and be radiant; your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you. ...	beauty
0	Isaiah 60:1-62:12	Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you. And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. Lift up your eyes all around, and see; they all gather together, they come to you; your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip. Then you shall see and be radiant; your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you. ...	debt,family
0	Isaiah 60:19	The sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light; but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory.	light
0	Isaiah 60:20	Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself; for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended.	light
0	Isaiah 60:2-3	For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you. And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.	light
0	Isaiah 61:1	The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound;	freedom,messiah,spirit
0	Isaiah 61:10	I will greatly rejoice in the Lord; my soul shall exult in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation; he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.	clothing,joy,righteousness
0	Isaiah 61:1-11	The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound; to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn; to grant to those who mourn in Zion&mdash; to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. They shall build up the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations. Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks; foreigners shall be your plowmen and vinedressers; ...	freedom
0	Isaiah 61:1-2	The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound; to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;	messiah
0	Isaiah 61:1-4	The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound; to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn; to grant to those who mourn in Zion&mdash; to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. They shall build up the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations.	community,reconciliation
0	Isaiah 61:3	To grant to those who mourn in Zion&mdash; to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified.	beauty,praise
0	Isaiah 62:1	For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet, until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch.	righteousness
0	Isaiah 62:11	Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the daughter of Zion, &ldquo;Behold, your salvation comes; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.&rdquo;	reward
0	Isaiah 62:3	You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.	beauty
0	Isaiah 62:5	For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you.	marriage
0	Isaiah 62:8-9	The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm: &ldquo;I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies, and foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored; but those who garner it shall eat it and praise the Lord, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Isaiah 63:10	But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.	holy-spirit,spirit
0	Isaiah 63:7	I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them according to his compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love.	compassion
0	Isaiah 63:9	In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.	angels,savior
0	Isaiah 64:6	We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.	eternal-life,righteousness,salvation,sin
0	Isaiah 65:1	I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me; I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, &ldquo;Here am I, here am I,&rdquo; to a nation that was not called by my name.	calling,seeking
0	Isaiah 65:17	&ldquo;For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind.	heaven
0	Isaiah 65:17-21	&ldquo;For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people; no more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days, for the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed. They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.	understanding
0	Isaiah 65:21-23	They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat; for like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord, and their descendants with them.	fruitfulness
0	Isaiah 65:24	Before they call I will answer; while they are yet speaking I will hear.	promises
0	Isaiah 65:3-6	A people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks; who sit in tombs, and spend the night in secret places; who eat pig's flesh, and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels; who say, &ldquo;Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you.&rdquo; These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day. Behold, it is written before me: &ldquo;I will not keep silent, but I will repay; I will indeed repay into their bosom	food
0	Isaiah 66:1-2	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool; what is the house that you would build for me, and what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look: he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word.	dependence,pride
0	Isaiah 66:13	As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.	comforter
0	Isaiah 66:15-18	&ldquo;For behold, the Lord will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment, and by his sword, with all flesh; and those slain by the Lord shall be many. &ldquo;Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice, shall come to an end together, declares the Lord. &ldquo;For I know their works and their thoughts, and the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues. And they shall come and shall see my glory,	food
0	Isaiah 66:2	All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look: he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word.	humility,pride
0	Isaiah 66:23	From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the Lord.	sabbath
0	Isaiah 66:24	&ldquo;And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For their worm shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh.&rdquo;	ascension,hell
0	Isaiah 7:14	Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.	christmas,fruitfulness,jesus,messiah,prophecy,redeemer
0	Isaiah 7:1-9:21	In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it. When the house of David was told, &ldquo;Syria is in league with Ephraim,&rdquo; the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. And the Lord said to Isaiah, &ldquo;Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field. And say to him, &lsquo;Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah. Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying, ...	christmas
0	Isaiah 8:14	And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.	redeemer
0	Isaiah 8:18-9:3	Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion. And when they say to you, &ldquo;Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter,&rdquo; should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living? To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. They will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry. And when they are hungry, they will be enraged and will speak contemptuously against their king and their God, and turn their faces upward. And they will look to the earth, but behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish. And they will be thrust into thick darkness. ...	listening
0	Isaiah 8:19	And when they say to you, &ldquo;Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter,&rdquo; should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living?	devil,mediator
0	Isaiah 8:2	And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah, to attest for me.&rdquo;	reliability
0	Isaiah 9:1-2	But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.  The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shined.	messiah
0	Isaiah 9:16	For those who guide this people have been leading them astray, and those who are guided by them are swallowed up.	redeemer
0	Isaiah 9:17	Therefore the Lord does not rejoice over their young men, and has no compassion on their fatherless and widows; for everyone is godless and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.	orphans
0	Isaiah 9:2	The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shined.	light
0	Isaiah 9:3	You have multiplied the nation; you have increased its joy; they rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil.	harvest,joy
0	Isaiah 9:5	For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire.	blood
0	Isaiah 9:5-7	For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.	messiah
0	Isaiah 9:6	For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.	christmas,comforter,jesus,messiah,peace,redeemer
0	Isaiah 9:6-7	For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.	kingdom,messiah,orphans,savior
0	Isaiah 9:7	Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.	messiah,prophecy
0	James 1:12	Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him.	life,overcoming,reward,safety,suffering,temptation,trust
0	James 1:12-15	Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, &ldquo;I am being tempted by God,&rdquo; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.	addiction,dependence
0	James 1:12-16	Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, &ldquo;I am being tempted by God,&rdquo; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.	temptation
0	James 1:12-2:16	Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, &ldquo;I am being tempted by God,&rdquo; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. ...	materialism
0	James 1:1-27	James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes in the Dispersion: Greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. ...	fasting,fruitfulness,serving,wisdom
0	James 1:13	Let no one say when he is tempted, &ldquo;I am being tempted by God,&rdquo; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one.	almighty,blameless,evil,temptation,understanding
0	James 1:13-15	Let no one say when he is tempted, &ldquo;I am being tempted by God,&rdquo; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.	devil,evil,selfishness,temptation
0	James 1:14	But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire.	evil,overcoming,sin,temptation
0	James 1:14-15	But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.	sin,thoughts
0	James 1:14-16	But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.	temptation
0	James 1:15	Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.	punishment,sin
0	James 1:17	Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.	blameless,blessing,children,christmas,giving,god,goodness,gratitude,light,redeemer,transformation
0	James 1:17-27	Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. ...	fasting
0	James 1:18	Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.	blessing,pentecost,truth
0	James 1:19	Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;	anger,blessing,listening,patience,self-control,speaking
0	James 1:19-20	Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God.	anger,evil,gentleness,overcoming,patience,self-control
0	James 1:19-21	Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.	overcoming
0	James 1:2	Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds,	joy,suffering,temptation
0	James 1:20	For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God.	anger,overcoming,self-control
0	James 1:21	Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.	evil,gentleness,holiness,humility,salvation,the-word
0	James 1:22	But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.	blood,listening,obedience,rebirth,the-word
0	James 1:22-25	But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.	obedience,transformation
0	James 1:22-27	But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. ...	honesty
0	James 1:2-3	Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.	addiction,joy
0	James 1:2-4	Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.	encouragement,gratitude,joy,life,overcoming,patience,suffering,temptation,understanding,worrying
0	James 1:25	But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.	freedom,law,listening
0	James 1:26	If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless.	gossip,honesty,lying,speaking
0	James 1:27	Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world.	children,clothing,community,compassion,equipment,generosity,holiness,mercy,neighbor,orphans,serving,widows
0	James 1:3	For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.	faith,patience,temptation
0	James 1:3-4	For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.	patience
0	James 1:4	And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.	patience,righteousness
0	James 1:5	If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him.	generosity,giving,god,learning,planning,prayer,promises,seeking,understanding,wisdom
0	James 1:5-6	If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind.	wisdom
0	James 1:5-7	If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;	mind
0	James 1:5-8	If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord; he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.	faith
0	James 1:6	But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind.	faith,fruitfulness,prayer,trust
0	James 1:6-7	But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;	prayer
0	James 1:8	He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.	mind,thoughts
0	James 1:9-10	Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.	pride
0	James 2:10	For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it.	almighty,law,temptation
0	James 2:11-13	For he who said, &ldquo;Do not commit adultery,&rdquo; also said, &ldquo;Do not murder.&rdquo; If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.	world
0	James 2:12	So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.	freedom,judgment
0	James 2:12-13	So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.	gentleness,mercy
0	James 2:1-26	My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, &ldquo;You sit here in a good place,&rdquo; while you say to the poor man, &ldquo;You stand over there,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;Sit down at my feet,&rdquo; have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him? ...	orphans
0	James 2:13	For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.	judgment,mercy
0	James 2:14-17	What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, &ldquo;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&rdquo; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.	community,serving
0	James 2:14-24	What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, &ldquo;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&rdquo; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, &ldquo;You have faith and I have works.&rdquo; Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. ...	peace
0	James 2:14-26	What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, &ldquo;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&rdquo; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, &ldquo;You have faith and I have works.&rdquo; Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. ...	faith,fruitfulness
0	James 2:1-5	My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, &ldquo;You sit here in a good place,&rdquo; while you say to the poor man, &ldquo;You stand over there,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;Sit down at my feet,&rdquo; have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him?	judgment
0	James 2:15-16	If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, &ldquo;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&rdquo; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?	generosity,giving
0	James 2:16	And one of you says to them, &ldquo;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&rdquo; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?	selfishness
0	James 2:17	So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.	faith,obedience
0	James 2:18	But someone will say, &ldquo;You have faith and I have works.&rdquo; Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.	faith,salvation,work
0	James 2:19	You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons believe&mdash;and shudder!	ascension,blameless,comforter,devil,faith,faithfulness,reconciliation
0	James 2:23	And the Scripture was fulfilled that says, &ldquo;Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness&rdquo;&mdash;and he was called a friend of God.	friendship,righteousness
0	James 2:24	You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone.	courage,faith,obedience,purification
0	James 2:26	For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead.	body,obedience,spirit,work
0	James 2:5	Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him?	calling,compassion,contentment,poverty
0	James 2:8	If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself,&rdquo; you are doing well.	forgiveness,love,neighbor
0	James 3:1	Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness.	reward
0	James 3:1-18	Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs. So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire! ...	self-control
0	James 3:13	Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom.	gentleness,goodness,humility,mind,speaking,wisdom
0	James 3:14	But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth.	lying,selfishness
0	James 3:1-4:17	Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs. So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire! ...	sin
0	James 3:16	For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.	materialism,selfishness
0	James 3:17	But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere.	fruitfulness,gentleness,honesty,peace,understanding,wisdom
0	James 3:18	And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.	peace,righteousness
0	James 3:2	For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body.	gossip,humility,speaking
0	James 3:5	So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire!	gossip,speaking
0	James 3:6	And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell.	gossip,hell
0	James 3:8	But no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.	gossip
0	James 3:8-10	But no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.	speaking
0	James 4:10	Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.	humility,pride,reward
0	James 4:11	Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.	gossip,speaking
0	James 4:11-12	Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor?	gentleness,honesty
0	James 4:1-2	What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.	anger,contentment,selfishness
0	James 4:1-3	What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.	desires
0	James 4:13-14	Come now, you who say, &ldquo;Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit&rdquo;&mdash; yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes.	planning
0	James 4:13-15	Come now, you who say, &ldquo;Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit&rdquo;&mdash; yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead you ought to say, &ldquo;If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that.&rdquo;	debt,planning
0	James 4:13-16	Come now, you who say, &ldquo;Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit&rdquo;&mdash; yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead you ought to say, &ldquo;If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that.&rdquo; As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.	planning
0	James 4:14	Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes.	life
0	James 4:1-5:20	What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, &ldquo;He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us&rdquo;? ...	temptation
0	James 4:17	So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.	gossip,overcoming,punishment,sin
0	James 4:2	You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.	contentment,prayer
0	James 4:3	You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.	greed,prayer
0	James 4:3-4	You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.	idols
0	James 4:4	You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.	friendship,materialism,world
0	James 4:6	But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, &ldquo;God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble.&rdquo;	grace,humility,judgment,pride,selfishness,weakness
0	James 4:7	Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.	addiction,dependence,devil,evil,healing,overcoming,promises,protection,sadness,safety,sin,temptation,thoughts,valuable
0	James 4:8	Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.	contentment,conversion,friendship,goodness,heart,purification,repentance,seeking
0	James 5:10	As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.	patience,persecution
0	James 5:11	Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful.	compassion,healing,nearness,patience
0	James 5:12	But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your &ldquo;yes&rdquo; be yes and your &ldquo;no&rdquo; be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.	honesty,judgment,lying,promises,punishment,truth
0	James 5:1-20	Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. ...	materialism,poverty
0	James 5:13	Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.	praise,prayer,sadness,singing,worship
0	James 5:13-14	Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.	prayer
0	James 5:13-18	Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. ...	prayer
0	James 5:14	Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.	church,healing,prayer,sickness
0	James 5:14-15	Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.	forgiveness,healing,health,sickness
0	James 5:14-16	Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.	health,prayer,sickness
0	James 5:15	And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.	healing
0	James 5:15-16	And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.	health,sickness
0	James 5:16	Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.	calling,church,community,confession,forgiveness,healing,health,prayer,promises,righteousness,sickness,sin,strength
0	James 5:1-6	Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. ...	greed,money
0	James 5:16-18	Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit.	prayer
0	James 5:16-20	Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.	addiction
0	James 5:19-20	My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.	conversion,repentance
0	James 5:7	Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it, until it receives the early and the late rains.	harvest,patience
0	James 5:7-8	Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it, until it receives the early and the late rains. You also, be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.	patience
0	James 5:8	You also, be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.	patience
0	Jeremiah 1:4-10	Now the word of the Lord came to me, saying, &ldquo;Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.&rdquo; Then I said, &ldquo;Ah, Lord God! Behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth.&rdquo; But the Lord said to me, &ldquo;Do not say, &lsquo;I am only a youth&rsquo;; for to all to whom I send you, you shall go, and whatever I command you, you shall speak. Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the Lord.&rdquo; ...	calling
0	Jeremiah 1:4-5	Now the word of the Lord came to me, saying, &ldquo;Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.&rdquo;	world
0	Jeremiah 1:5	&ldquo;Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.&rdquo;	body,calling,children,compassion,faithfulness,father,life,planning
0	Jeremiah 10:10	But the Lord is the true God; he is the living God and the everlasting King. At his wrath the earth quakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation.	god
0	Jeremiah 10:1-11:23	Hear the word that the Lord speaks to you, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Learn not the way of the nations, nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens because the nations are dismayed at them, for the customs of the peoples are vanity. A tree from the forest is cut down and worked with an axe by the hands of a craftsman. They decorate it with silver and gold; they fasten it with hammer and nails so that it cannot move. Their idols are like scarecrows in a cucumber field, and they cannot speak; they have to be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good.&rdquo; ...	christmas,idols
0	Jeremiah 10:12	It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.	creation,god,heaven
0	Jeremiah 10:12-13	It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens. When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.	world
0	Jeremiah 10:13	When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.	god
0	Jeremiah 10:23	I know, O Lord, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.	humility,sin
0	Jeremiah 11:12	Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they make offerings, but they cannot save them in the time of their trouble.	idols
0	Jeremiah 11:19	But I was like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter. I did not know it was against me they devised schemes, saying, &ldquo;Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name be remembered no more.&rdquo;	gentleness
0	Jeremiah 11:3	You shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Cursed be the man who does not hear the words of this covenant	covenant
0	Jeremiah 12:13	They have sown wheat and have reaped thorns; they have tired themselves out but profit nothing. They shall be ashamed of their harvests because of the fierce anger of the Lord.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Jeremiah 12:3	But you, O Lord, know me; you see me, and test my heart toward you. Pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and set them apart for the day of slaughter.	heart
0	Jeremiah 12:8	My heritage has become to me like a lion in the forest; she has lifted up her voice against me; therefore I hate her.	calling
0	Jeremiah 13:12	&ldquo;You shall speak to them this word: &lsquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, &ldquo;Every jar shall be filled with wine.&rdquo;&rsquo; And they will say to you, &lsquo;Do we not indeed know that every jar will be filled with wine?&rsquo;	wine
0	Jeremiah 13:16	Give glory to the Lord your God before he brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the twilight mountains, and while you look for light he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness.	light
0	Jeremiah 14:1-15:21	The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought: &ldquo;Judah mourns, and her gates languish; her people lament on the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up. Her nobles send their servants for water; they come to the cisterns; they find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are ashamed and confounded and cover their heads. Because of the ground that is dismayed, since there is no rain on the land, the farmers are ashamed; they cover their heads. Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn because there is no grass. ...	poverty
0	Jeremiah 14:12	Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, and though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Jeremiah 15:16	Your words were found, and I ate them, and your words became to me a joy and the delight of my heart, for I am called by your name, O Lord, God of hosts.	contentment,food,joy
0	Jeremiah 16:6	Both great and small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, and no one shall lament for them or cut himself or make himself bald for them.	equipment
0	Jeremiah 17:10	&ldquo;I the Lord search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds.&rdquo;	heart,judgment,reward,thoughts,weakness
0	Jeremiah 17:1-27	&ldquo;The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron; with a point of diamond it is engraved on the tablet of their heart, and on the horns of their altars, while their children remember their altars and their Asherim, beside every green tree and on the high hills, on the mountains in the open country. Your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory. You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave to you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever.&rdquo; Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord. ...	addiction,idols
0	Jeremiah 17:14	Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise.	healing,health,sickness
0	Jeremiah 17:21	Thus says the Lord: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem.	sabbath
0	Jeremiah 17:21-23	Thus says the Lord: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem. And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers. Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck, that they might not hear and receive instruction.	sabbath
0	Jeremiah 17:22	And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers.	sabbath
0	Jeremiah 17:24-27	&ldquo;&lsquo;But if you listen to me, declares the Lord, and bring in no burden by the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but keep the Sabbath day holy and do no work on it, then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this city shall be inhabited forever. And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the Shephelah, from the hill country, and from the Negeb, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and frankincense, and bringing thank offerings to the house of the Lord. But if you do not listen to me, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and not to bear a burden and enter by the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem and shall not be quenched.&rsquo;&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Jeremiah 17:5	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord.	trust
0	Jeremiah 17:5-8	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord. He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land. &ldquo;Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit.&rdquo;	dependence,soul
0	Jeremiah 17:7	&ldquo;Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord.	hope,trust
0	Jeremiah 17:7-8	&ldquo;Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit.&rdquo;	blessing,trust,worrying
0	Jeremiah 17:9	The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it?	heart,sin,understanding,weakness
0	Jeremiah 17:9-10	The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it? &ldquo;I the Lord search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds.&rdquo;	heart,mind
0	Jeremiah 18:8	And if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do to it.	repentance
0	Jeremiah 2:11	Has a nation changed its gods, even though they are no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit.	transformation
0	Jeremiah 2:18-19	And now what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Or what do you gain by going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates? Your evil will chastise you, and your apostasy will reprove you. Know and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the Lord your God; the fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord God of hosts.	idols
0	Jeremiah 20:10	For I hear many whispering. Terror is on every side! &ldquo;Denounce him! Let us denounce him!&rdquo; say all my close friends, watching for my fall. &ldquo;Perhaps he will be deceived; then we can overcome him and take our revenge on him.&rdquo;	dependence
0	Jeremiah 20:11	But the Lord is with me as a dread warrior; therefore my persecutors will stumble; they will not overcome me. They will be greatly shamed, for they will not succeed. Their eternal dishonor will never be forgotten.	persecution
0	Jeremiah 20:13	Sing to the Lord; praise the Lord! For he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of evildoers.	singing
0	Jeremiah 21:1-22:30	This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchiah and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying, &ldquo;Inquire of the Lord for us, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps the Lord will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds and will make him withdraw from us.&rdquo; Then Jeremiah said to them: &ldquo;Thus you shall say to Zedekiah, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands and with which you are fighting against the king of Babylon and against the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls. And I will bring them together into the midst of this city. I myself will fight against you with outstretched hand and strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great wrath. ...	selfishness
0	Jeremiah 21:1-23:40	This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchiah and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying, &ldquo;Inquire of the Lord for us, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps the Lord will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds and will make him withdraw from us.&rdquo; Then Jeremiah said to them: &ldquo;Thus you shall say to Zedekiah, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands and with which you are fighting against the king of Babylon and against the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls. And I will bring them together into the midst of this city. I myself will fight against you with outstretched hand and strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great wrath. ...	greed
0	Jeremiah 22:3	Thus says the Lord: Do justice and righteousness, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed. And do no wrong or violence to the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, nor shed innocent blood in this place.	orphans,widows
0	Jeremiah 22:3-21	Thus says the Lord: Do justice and righteousness, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed. And do no wrong or violence to the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, nor shed innocent blood in this place. For if you will indeed obey this word, then there shall enter the gates of this house kings who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their servants and their people. But if you will not obey these words, I swear by myself, declares the Lord, that this house shall become a desolation. For thus says the Lord concerning the house of the king of Judah: &ldquo;&lsquo;You are like Gilead to me, like the summit of Lebanon, yet surely I will make you a desert, an uninhabited city. I will prepare destroyers against you, each with his weapons, and they shall cut down your choicest cedars and cast them into the fire. ...	poverty
0	Jeremiah 23:14	But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah.&rdquo;	acknowledging
0	Jeremiah 23:1-40	&ldquo;Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture!&rdquo; declares the Lord. Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people: &ldquo;You have scattered my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares the Lord. Then I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and I will bring them back to their fold, and they shall be fruitful and multiply. I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares the Lord. &ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. ...	receiving
0	Jeremiah 23:24	Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord.	god
0	Jeremiah 23:29	Is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?	the-word
0	Jeremiah 23:32	Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the Lord, and who tell them and lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness, when I did not send them or charge them. So they do not profit this people at all, declares the Lord.	lying
0	Jeremiah 23:5	&ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.	messiah,prophecy
0	Jeremiah 23:5-29	&ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: &lsquo;The Lord is our righteousness.&rsquo; &ldquo;Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when they shall no longer say, &lsquo;As the Lord lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,&rsquo; but &lsquo;As the Lord lives who brought up and led the offspring of the house of Israel out of the north country and out of all the countries where he had driven them.&rsquo; Then they shall dwell in their own land.&rdquo; Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the Lord and because of his holy words. ...	christmas
0	Jeremiah 23:6	In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: &lsquo;The Lord is our righteousness.&rsquo;	righteousness
0	Jeremiah 23:9	Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the Lord and because of his holy words.	wine
0	Jeremiah 24:7	I will give them a heart to know that I am the Lord, and they shall be my people and I will be their God, for they shall return to me with their whole heart.	repentance
0	Jeremiah 25:1-38	The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah (that was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon), which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: &ldquo;For twenty-three years, from the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, to this day, the word of the Lord has come to me, and I have spoken persistently to you, but you have not listened. You have neither listened nor inclined your ears to hear, although the Lord persistently sent to you all his servants the prophets, saying, &lsquo;Turn now, every one of you, from his evil way and evil deeds, and dwell upon the land that the Lord has given to you and your fathers from of old and forever. ...	addiction
0	Jeremiah 26:2	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord: Stand in the court of the Lord's house, and speak to all the cities of Judah that come to worship in the house of the Lord all the words that I command you to speak to them; do not hold back a word.	worship
0	Jeremiah 26:3	It may be they will listen, and every one turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the disaster that I intend to do to them because of their evil deeds.	repentance
0	Jeremiah 26:3-6	It may be they will listen, and every one turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the disaster that I intend to do to them because of their evil deeds. You shall say to them, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord: If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law that I have set before you, and to listen to the words of my servants the prophets whom I send to you urgently, though you have not listened, then I will make this house like Shiloh, and I will make this city a curse for all the nations of the earth.&rsquo;&rdquo;	listening
0	Jeremiah 27:5	&ldquo;It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth, with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me.	creation
0	Jeremiah 29:11	For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.	blessing,calling,children,courage,encouragement,faith,faithfulness,fear,god,goodness,hope,joy,learning,life,marriage,patience,peace,planning,promises,relationships,sadness,seeking,serving,sickness,speaking,strength,suffering,thoughts,transformation,trust,understanding,worrying
0	Jeremiah 29:11-12	For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you.	planning
0	Jeremiah 29:11-13	For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart.	promises
0	Jeremiah 29:11-14	For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart. I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.	encouragement,seeking,trust
0	Jeremiah 29:12	Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you.	listening,prayer
0	Jeremiah 29:12-13	Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart.	seeking
0	Jeremiah 29:12-14	Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart. I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.	mind,seeking
0	Jeremiah 29:13	You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart.	faithfulness,heart,seeking
0	Jeremiah 29:14	I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.	encouragement
0	Jeremiah 29:5-31:12	Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce. Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease. But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Do not let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams that they dream, for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you in my name; I did not send them, declares the Lord. ...	family
0	Jeremiah 29:6	Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease.	marriage
0	Jeremiah 29:7	But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare.	worrying
0	Jeremiah 3:12	Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, &ldquo;&lsquo;Return, faithless Israel, declares the Lord. I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful, declares the Lord; I will not be angry forever.	anger,forgiveness,mercy
0	Jeremiah 3:19	&ldquo;&lsquo;I said, How I would set you among my sons, and give you a pleasant land, a heritage most beautiful of all nations. And I thought you would call me, My Father, and would not turn from following me.	beauty,father
0	Jeremiah 3:6-19	The Lord said to me in the days of King Josiah: &ldquo;Have you seen what she did, that faithless one, Israel, how she went up on every high hill and under every green tree, and there played the whore? And I thought, &lsquo;After she has done all this she will return to me,&rsquo; but she did not return, and her treacherous sister Judah saw it. She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, I had sent her away with a decree of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she too went and played the whore. Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree. Yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense, declares the Lord.&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	Jeremiah 30:12-14	&ldquo;For thus says the Lord: Your hurt is incurable, and your wound is grievous. There is none to uphold your cause, no medicine for your wound, no healing for you. All your lovers have forgotten you; they care nothing for you; for I have dealt you the blow of an enemy, the punishment of a merciless foe, because your guilt is great, because your sins are flagrant.	health
0	Jeremiah 30:17	For I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal, declares the Lord, because they have called you an outcast: &lsquo;It is Zion, for whom no one cares!&rsquo;	healing,health,promises,sickness
0	Jeremiah 31:1-40	&ldquo;At that time, declares the Lord, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people.&rdquo; Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;The people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness; when Israel sought for rest, the Lord appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin Israel! Again you shall adorn yourself with tambourines and shall go forth in the dance of the merrymakers. Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant and shall enjoy the fruit. ...	covenant
0	Jeremiah 31:15	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more.&rdquo;	messiah,prophecy
0	Jeremiah 31:16	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your work, declares the Lord, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy.	reward
0	Jeremiah 31:18-20	I have heard Ephraim grieving, &lsquo;You have disciplined me, and I was disciplined, like an untrained calf; bring me back that I may be restored, for you are the Lord my God. For after I had turned away, I relented, and after I was instructed, I struck my thigh; I was ashamed, and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.&rsquo; Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, declares the Lord.	repentance
0	Jeremiah 31:19	For after I had turned away, I relented, and after I was instructed, I struck my thigh; I was ashamed, and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.&rsquo;	repentance
0	Jeremiah 31:25	For I will satisfy the weary soul, and every languishing soul I will replenish.&rdquo;	rest
0	Jeremiah 31:3	The Lord appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you.	love
0	Jeremiah 31:31	&ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah,	christmas,covenant,messiah
0	Jeremiah 31:31-34	&ldquo;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, &lsquo;Know the Lord,&rsquo; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.&rdquo;	calling,covenant,sin
0	Jeremiah 31:33	But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.	covenant
0	Jeremiah 31:34	And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, &lsquo;Know the Lord,&rsquo; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.&rdquo;	forgiveness
0	Jeremiah 31:9	With weeping they shall come, and with pleas for mercy I will lead them back, I will make them walk by brooks of water, in a straight path in which they shall not stumble, for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.	sadness
0	Jeremiah 32:17	&lsquo;Ah, Lord God! It is you who have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm! Nothing is too hard for you.	almighty,creation,strength
0	Jeremiah 32:18	You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them, O great and mighty God, whose name is the Lord of hosts,	father
0	Jeremiah 32:27	&ldquo;Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too hard for me?	miracles,sickness
0	Jeremiah 33:12	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts: In this place that is waste, without man or beast, and in all of its cities, there shall again be habitations of shepherds resting their flocks.	rest
0	Jeremiah 33:21	Then also my covenant with David my servant may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests my ministers.	covenant
0	Jeremiah 33:3	Call to me and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known.	calling,encouragement,listening,planning,prayer,promises,thoughts,wisdom
0	Jeremiah 33:5	They are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I shall strike down in my anger and my wrath, for I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil.	anger
0	Jeremiah 33:6	Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security.	healing,health,peace,sickness
0	Jeremiah 34:1-22	The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion and all the peoples were fighting against Jerusalem and all of its cities: &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah and say to him, &lsquo;Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire. You shall not escape from his hand but shall surely be captured and delivered into his hand. You shall see the king of Babylon eye to eye and speak with him face to face. And you shall go to Babylon.&rsquo; Yet hear the word of the Lord, O Zedekiah king of Judah! Thus says the Lord concerning you: &lsquo;You shall not die by the sword. You shall die in peace. And as spices were burned for your fathers, the former kings who were before you, so people shall burn spices for you and lament for you, saying, &ldquo;Alas, lord!&rdquo;&rsquo; For I have spoken the word, declares the Lord.&rdquo; ...	poverty
0	Jeremiah 34:14	&lsquo;At the end of seven years each of you must set free the fellow Hebrew who has been sold to you and has served you six years; you must set him free from your service.&rsquo; But your fathers did not listen to me or incline their ears to me.	slavery
0	Jeremiah 34:15	You recently repented and did what was right in my eyes by proclaiming liberty, each to his neighbor, and you made a covenant before me in the house that is called by my name,	freedom
0	Jeremiah 34:17	&ldquo;Therefore, thus says the Lord: You have not obeyed me by proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother and to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim to you liberty to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, declares the Lord. I will make you a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.	freedom
0	Jeremiah 34:8	The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people in Jerusalem to make a proclamation of liberty to them,	freedom
0	Jeremiah 34:9	That everyone should set free his Hebrew slaves, male and female, so that no one should enslave a Jew, his brother.	slavery
0	Jeremiah 35:14	The command that Jonadab the son of Rechab gave to his sons, to drink no wine, has been kept, and they drink none to this day, for they have obeyed their father's command. I have spoken to you persistently, but you have not listened to me.	wine
0	Jeremiah 36:9	In the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before the Lord.	fasting
0	Jeremiah 37:21	So King Zedekiah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard. And a loaf of bread was given him daily from the bakers' street, until all the bread of the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.	bread
0	Jeremiah 39:17-18	But I will deliver you on that day, declares the Lord, and you shall not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid. For I will surely save you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but you shall have your life as a prize of war, because you have put your trust in me, declares the Lord.&rsquo;&rdquo;	soul
0	Jeremiah 4:22	&ldquo;For my people are foolish; they know me not; they are stupid children; they have no understanding. They are &lsquo;wise&rsquo;&mdash;in doing evil! But how to do good they know not.&rdquo;	self-control
0	Jeremiah 40:12	Then all the Judeans returned from all the places to which they had been driven and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And they gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance.	wine
0	Jeremiah 41:4	On the day after the murder of Gedaliah, before anyone knew of it,	equipment
0	Jeremiah 42:5-43:11	Then they said to Jeremiah, &ldquo;May the Lord be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act according to all the word with which the Lord your God sends you to us. Whether it is good or bad, we will obey the voice of the Lord our God to whom we are sending you, that it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the Lord our God.&rdquo; At the end of ten days the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Then he summoned Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces who were with him, and all the people from the least to the greatest, and said to them, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your plea for mercy before him: ...	poverty
0	Jeremiah 44:1-30	The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Judeans who lived in the land of Egypt, at Migdol, at Tahpanhes, at Memphis, and in the land of Pathros, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the disaster that I brought upon Jerusalem and upon all the cities of Judah. Behold, this day they are a desolation, and no one dwells in them, because of the evil that they committed, provoking me to anger, in that they went to make offerings and serve other gods that they knew not, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers. Yet I persistently sent to you all my servants the prophets, saying, &lsquo;Oh, do not do this abomination that I hate!&rsquo; But they did not listen or incline their ear, to turn from their evil and make no offerings to other gods. ...	easter
0	Jeremiah 45:5	And do you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not, for behold, I am bringing disaster upon all flesh, declares the Lord. But I will give you your life as a prize of war in all places to which you may go.&rdquo;	humility
0	Jeremiah 48:11	&ldquo;Moab has been at ease from his youth and has settled on his dregs; he has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile; so his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed.	wine
0	Jeremiah 48:36	Therefore my heart moans for Moab like a flute, and my heart moans like a flute for the men of Kir-hareseth. Therefore the riches they gained have perished.	equipment
0	Jeremiah 49:11	Leave your fatherless children; I will keep them alive; and let your widows trust in me.&rdquo;	orphans,widows
0	Jeremiah 49:16	The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down from there, declares the Lord.	pride
0	Jeremiah 5:17	They shall eat up your harvest and your food; they shall eat up your sons and your daughters; they shall eat up your flocks and your herds; they shall eat up your vines and your fig trees; your fortified cities in which you trust they shall beat down with the sword.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Jeremiah 5:22	Do you not fear me? declares the Lord. Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the boundary for the sea, a perpetual barrier that it cannot pass; though the waves toss, they cannot prevail; though they roar, they cannot pass over it.	creation
0	Jeremiah 5:24	They do not say in their hearts, &lsquo;Let us fear the Lord our God, who gives the rain in its season, the autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest.&rsquo;	harvest
0	Jeremiah 5:26-29	For wicked men are found among my people; they lurk like fowlers lying in wait. They set a trap; they catch men. Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit; therefore they have become great and rich; they have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil; they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy. Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the Lord, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?&rdquo;	greed
0	Jeremiah 5:26-6:13	For wicked men are found among my people; they lurk like fowlers lying in wait. They set a trap; they catch men. Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit; therefore they have become great and rich; they have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil; they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy. Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the Lord, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?&rdquo; An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land: ...	christmas
0	Jeremiah 5:28	They have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil; they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy.	orphans
0	Jeremiah 5:4-25	Then I said, &ldquo;These are only the poor; they have no sense; for they do not know the way of the Lord, the justice of their God. I will go to the great and will speak to them, for they know the way of the Lord, the justice of their God.&rdquo; But they all alike had broken the yoke; they had burst the bonds. Therefore a lion from the forest shall strike them down; a wolf from the desert shall devastate them. A leopard is watching their cities; everyone who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces, because their transgressions are many, their apostasies are great. &ldquo;How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me and have sworn by those who are no gods. When I fed them to the full, they committed adultery and trooped to the houses of whores. They were well-fed, lusty stallions, each neighing for his neighbor's wife. ...	poverty
0	Jeremiah 50:16	Cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest; because of the sword of the oppressor, every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land.	harvest
0	Jeremiah 50:19-21	I will restore Israel to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and in Bashan, and his desire shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead. In those days and in that time, declares the Lord, iniquity shall be sought in Israel, and there shall be none, and sin in Judah, and none shall be found, for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant. &ldquo;Go up against the land of Merathaim, and against the inhabitants of Pekod. Kill, and devote them to destruction, declares the Lord, and do all that I have commanded you.	addiction
0	Jeremiah 50:5	They shall ask the way to Zion, with faces turned toward it, saying, &lsquo;Come, let us join ourselves to the Lord in an everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten.&rsquo;	covenant
0	Jeremiah 51:15	&ldquo;It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.	creation,god
0	Jeremiah 51:33	For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while and the time of her harvest will come.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Jeremiah 51:45	&ldquo;Go out of the midst of her, my people! Let every one save his life from the fierce anger of the Lord!	anger
0	Jeremiah 6:13	&ldquo;For from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.	greed
0	Jeremiah 6:13-7:20	&ldquo;For from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, &lsquo;Peace, peace,&rsquo; when there is no peace. Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them, they shall be overthrown,&rdquo; says the Lord. Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, &lsquo;We will not walk in it.&rsquo; I set watchmen over you, saying, &lsquo;Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet!&rsquo; But they said, &lsquo;We will not pay attention.&rsquo; ...	greed
0	Jeremiah 6:16	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, &lsquo;We will not walk in it.&rsquo;	goodness,rest
0	Jeremiah 6:28	They are all stubbornly rebellious, going about with slanders; they are bronze and iron; all of them act corruptly.	gossip
0	Jeremiah 7:13	And now, because you have done all these things, declares the Lord, and when I spoke to you persistently you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer,	listening
0	Jeremiah 7:18	The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, and the women knead dough, to make cakes for the queen of heaven. And they pour out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.	bread
0	Jeremiah 7:23	But this command I gave them: &lsquo;Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people. And walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.&rsquo;	obedience
0	Jeremiah 7:31	And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind.	hell
0	Jeremiah 7:5-7	&ldquo;For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice one with another, if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm, then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever.	orphans
0	Jeremiah 7:6	If you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm,	orphans,widows
0	Jeremiah 7:9-18	Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known, and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, &lsquo;We are delivered!&rsquo;&mdash;only to go on doing all these abominations? Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself have seen it, declares the Lord. Go now to my place that was in Shiloh, where I made my name dwell at first, and see what I did to it because of the evil of my people Israel. And now, because you have done all these things, declares the Lord, and when I spoke to you persistently you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer, ...	easter
0	Jeremiah 8:10	Therefore I will give their wives to others and their fields to conquerors, because from the least to the greatest everyone is greedy for unjust gain; from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.	greed
0	Jeremiah 8:20	&ldquo;The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Jeremiah 9:1-26	Oh that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!  Oh that I had in the desert a travelers' lodging place, that I might leave my people and go away from them! For they are all adulterers, a company of treacherous men. They bend their tongue like a bow; falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. Let everyone beware of his neighbor, and put no trust in any brother, for every brother is a deceiver, and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer. Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the truth; they have taught their tongue to speak lies; they weary themselves committing iniquity. ...	safety
0	Jeremiah 9:23	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches,	humility,pride,wisdom
0	Jeremiah 9:23-24	Thus says the Lord: &ldquo;Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord.&rdquo;	materialism,understanding,world
0	Jeremiah 9:24	But let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord.&rdquo;	god,wisdom
0	Job 1:1	There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God and turned away from evil.	blameless
0	Job 1:10	Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land.	work
0	Job 1:1-3:26	There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God and turned away from evil. There were born to him seven sons and three daughters. He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 female donkeys, and very many servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east. His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and consecrate them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, &ldquo;It may be that my children have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts.&rdquo; Thus Job did continually. ...	materialism
0	Job 1:20-21	Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshiped. And he said, &ldquo;Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.&rdquo;	suffering,worrying,worship
0	Job 1:21	And he said, &ldquo;Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.&rdquo;	faithfulness
0	Job 1:22	In all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong.	faithfulness
0	Job 1:6	Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them.	angels
0	Job 1:6-12	Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. The Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;From where have you come?&rdquo; Satan answered the Lord and said, &ldquo;From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.&rdquo; And the Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil?&rdquo; Then Satan answered the Lord and said, &ldquo;Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. ...	devil
0	Job 1:7	The Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;From where have you come?&rdquo; Satan answered the Lord and said, &ldquo;From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.&rdquo;	devil
0	Job 10:10	Did you not pour me out like milk and curdle me like cheese?	food
0	Job 10:8-9	Your hands fashioned and made me, and now you have destroyed me altogether. Remember that you have made me like clay; and will you return me to the dust?	world
0	Job 11:1-20	Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said: &ldquo;Should a multitude of words go unanswered, and a man full of talk be judged right? Should your babble silence men, and when you mock, shall no one shame you? For you say, &lsquo;My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in God's eyes.&rsquo; But oh, that God would speak and open his lips to you, ...	safety
0	Job 11:18	And you will feel secure, because there is hope; you will look around and take your rest in security.	hope
0	Job 11:6	And that he would tell you the secrets of wisdom! For he is manifold in understanding. Know then that God exacts of you less than your guilt deserves.	sin
0	Job 12:12	Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days.	wisdom
0	Job 12:12-13	Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days. &ldquo;With God are wisdom and might; he has counsel and understanding.	wisdom
0	Job 12:13	&ldquo;With God are wisdom and might; he has counsel and understanding.	wisdom
0	Job 12:7-10	&ldquo;But ask the beasts, and they will teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you; or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you; and the fish of the sea will declare to you. Who among all these does not know that the hand of the Lord has done this? In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind.	creation
0	Job 12:7-9	&ldquo;But ask the beasts, and they will teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you; or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you; and the fish of the sea will declare to you. Who among all these does not know that the hand of the Lord has done this?	creation
0	Job 13:15	Though he slay me, I will hope in him; yet I will argue my ways to his face.	hope,strength,trust
0	Job 14:14	If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my service I would wait, till my renewal should come.	death
0	Job 14:22-15:21	He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself.&rdquo; Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said: &ldquo;Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind? Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good? But you are doing away with the fear of God and hindering meditation before God. ...	selfishness
0	Job 15:11	Are the comforts of God too small for you, or the word that deals gently with you?	gentleness
0	Job 15:14	What is man, that he can be pure? Or he who is born of a woman, that he can be righteous?	sin
0	Job 16:20	My friends scorn me; my eye pours out tears to God,	friendship
0	Job 16:20-21	My friends scorn me; my eye pours out tears to God, that he would argue the case of a man with God, as a son of man does with his neighbor.	friendship
0	Job 16:22	For when a few years have come I shall go the way from which I shall not return.	death
0	Job 17:1-16	&ldquo;My spirit is broken; my days are extinct; the graveyard is ready for me. Surely there are mockers about me, and my eye dwells on their provocation. &ldquo;Lay down a pledge for me with yourself; who is there who will put up security for me? Since you have closed their hearts to understanding, therefore you will not let them triumph. He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property&mdash; the eyes of his children will fail. ...	family
0	Job 19:13-22	&ldquo;He has put my brothers far from me, and those who knew me are wholly estranged from me. My relatives have failed me, my close friends have forgotten me. The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become a foreigner in their eyes. I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must plead with him with my mouth for mercy. My breath is strange to my wife, and I am a stench to the children of my own mother. ...	friendship
0	Job 19:13-25	&ldquo;He has put my brothers far from me, and those who knew me are wholly estranged from me. My relatives have failed me, my close friends have forgotten me. The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become a foreigner in their eyes. I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must plead with him with my mouth for mercy. My breath is strange to my wife, and I am a stench to the children of my own mother. ...	family
0	Job 19:25	For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth.	easter,understanding
0	Job 19:25-26	For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God,	resurrection
0	Job 19:29	Be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishment of the sword, that you may know there is a judgment.&rdquo;	anger
0	Job 2:10	But he said to her, &ldquo;You speak as one of the foolish women would speak. Shall we receive good from God, and shall we not receive evil?&rdquo; In all this Job did not sin with his lips.	faithfulness
0	Job 2:11	Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came each from his own place, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. They made an appointment together to come to show him sympathy and comfort him.	friendship
0	Job 2:11-13	Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came each from his own place, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. They made an appointment together to come to show him sympathy and comfort him. And when they saw him from a distance, they did not recognize him. And they raised their voices and wept, and they tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads toward heaven. And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his suffering was very great.	friendship
0	Job 2:3	And the Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still holds fast his integrity, although you incited me against him to destroy him without reason.&rdquo;	honesty
0	Job 2:3-10	And the Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still holds fast his integrity, although you incited me against him to destroy him without reason.&rdquo; Then Satan answered the Lord and said, &ldquo;Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life. But stretch out your hand and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse you to your face.&rdquo; And the Lord said to Satan, &ldquo;Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life.&rdquo; So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord and struck Job with loathsome sores from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. ...	temptation
0	Job 2:9	Then his wife said to him, &ldquo;Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God and die.&rdquo;	faithfulness
0	Job 20:1-21:34	Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said: &ldquo;Therefore my thoughts answer me, because of my haste within me. I hear censure that insults me, and out of my understanding a spirit answers me. Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed on earth, that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment? ...	materialism
0	Job 20:5-21:13	That the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment? Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds, he will perish forever like his own dung; those who have seen him will say, &lsquo;Where is he?&rsquo; He will fly away like a dream and not be found; he will be chased away like a vision of the night. The eye that saw him will see him no more, nor will his place any more behold him. ...	addiction
0	Job 22:21	&ldquo;Agree with God, and be at peace; thereby good will come to you.	peace
0	Job 22:22-24	Receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart. If you return to the Almighty you will be built up; if you remove injustice far from your tents, if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent-bed,	idols
0	Job 22:23-28	If you return to the Almighty you will be built up; if you remove injustice far from your tents, if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent-bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and lift up your face to God. You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you, and you will pay your vows. ...	idols
0	Job 22:29	For when they are humbled you say, &lsquo;It is because of pride&rsquo;; but he saves the lowly.	humility
0	Job 22:6	For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing and stripped the naked of their clothing.	debt
0	Job 22:9	You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless were crushed.	orphans,widows
0	Job 23:12	I have not departed from the commandment of his lips; I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my portion of food.	food,the-word
0	Job 23:1-25:6	Then Job answered and said: &ldquo;Today also my complaint is bitter; my hand is heavy on account of my groaning. Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat! I would lay my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know what he would answer me and understand what he would say to me. ...	fear
0	Job 24:21	&ldquo;They wrong the barren, childless woman, and do no good to the widow.	widows
0	Job 24:3	They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge.	orphans,widows
0	Job 24:9	(There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and they take a pledge against the poor.)	orphans
0	Job 26:10	He has inscribed a circle on the face of the waters at the boundary between light and darkness.	following
0	Job 28:28	And he said to man, &lsquo;Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding.&rsquo;&rdquo;	safety,understanding,wisdom
0	Job 29:12	Because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him.	orphans
0	Job 29:12-13	Because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him. The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.	orphans
0	Job 29:13	The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.	orphans,widows
0	Job 29:14	I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; my justice was like a robe and a turban.	righteousness
0	Job 29:4	As I was in my prime, when the friendship of God was upon my tent,	friendship
0	Job 31:1	&ldquo;I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I gaze at a virgin?	almighty,covenant,self-control,thoughts
0	Job 31:16	&ldquo;If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,	widows
0	Job 31:16-18	&ldquo;If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail, or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it (for from my youth the fatherless grew up with me as with a father, and from my mother's womb I guided the widow),	orphans
0	Job 31:5-17	&ldquo;If I have walked with falsehood and my foot has hastened to deceit; (Let me be weighed in a just balance, and let God know my integrity!) if my step has turned aside from the way and my heart has gone after my eyes, and if any spot has stuck to my hands, then let me sow, and another eat, and let what grows for me be rooted out. &ldquo;If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door, ...	temptation
0	Job 32:19	Behold, my belly is like wine that has no vent; like new wineskins ready to burst.	wine
0	Job 33:26	Then man prays to God, and he accepts him; he sees his face with a shout of joy, and he restores to man his righteousness.	righteousness
0	Job 33:4	The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.	creation,redeemer,spirit
0	Job 34:10	&ldquo;Therefore, hear me, you men of understanding: far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should do wrong.	almighty
0	Job 34:12	Of a truth, God will not do wickedly, and the Almighty will not pervert justice.	truth
0	Job 36:11	If they listen and serve him, they complete their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasantness.	contentment
0	Job 36:15	He delivers the afflicted by their affliction and opens their ear by adversity.	suffering
0	Job 37:5	God thunders wondrously with his voice; he does great things that we cannot comprehend.	creation
0	Job 38:4	&ldquo;Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding.	understanding
0	Job 38:7	When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy?	angels
0	Job 4:8	As I have seen, those who plow iniquity and sow trouble reap the same.	receiving
0	Job 40:1-24	And the Lord said to Job: &ldquo;Shall a faultfinder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it.&rdquo; Then Job answered the Lord and said: &ldquo;Behold, I am of small account; what shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth. I have spoken once, and I will not answer; twice, but I will proceed no further.&rdquo; ...	worrying
0	Job 41:1-4	&ldquo;Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook or press down his tongue with a cord? Can you put a rope in his nose or pierce his jaw with a hook? Will he make many pleas to you? Will he speak to you soft words? Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant forever?	gentleness
0	Job 41:34	He sees everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of pride.&rdquo;	pride
0	Job 42:10	And the Lord restored the fortunes of Job, when he had prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before.	blessing
0	Job 42:1-6	Then Job answered the Lord and said: &ldquo;I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. &lsquo;Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?&rsquo; Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. &lsquo;Hear, and I will speak; I will question you, and you make it known to me.&rsquo; I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you; ...	grace
0	Job 42:2	&ldquo;I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted.	planning
0	Job 42:6	Therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes.&rdquo;	repentance
0	Job 5:11	He sets on high those who are lowly, and those who mourn are lifted to safety.	safety
0	Job 5:1-17:16	&ldquo;Call now; is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn? Surely vexation kills the fool, and jealousy slays the simple. I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling. His children are far from safety; they are crushed in the gate, and there is no one to deliver them. The hungry eat his harvest, and he takes it even out of thorns, and the thirsty pant after his wealth. ...	punishment
0	Job 5:17	&ldquo;Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves; therefore despise not the discipline of the Almighty.	punishment,suffering
0	Job 5:17-18	&ldquo;Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves; therefore despise not the discipline of the Almighty. For he wounds, but he binds up; he shatters, but his hands heal.	healing
0	Job 5:2	Surely vexation kills the fool, and jealousy slays the simple.	anger
0	Job 5:4	His children are far from safety; they are crushed in the gate, and there is no one to deliver them.	safety
0	Job 5:5	The hungry eat his harvest, and he takes it even out of thorns, and the thirsty pant after his wealth.	harvest
0	Job 5:8-9	&ldquo;As for me, I would seek God, and to God would I commit my cause, who does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number:	seeking
0	Job 5:9	Who does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number:	miracles
0	Job 6:14	&ldquo;He who withholds kindness from a friend forsakes the fear of the Almighty.	compassion,friendship
0	Job 6:15	My brothers are treacherous as a torrent-bed, as torrential streams that pass away,	friendship
0	Job 6:27	You would even cast lots over the fatherless, and bargain over your friend.	orphans
0	Job 6:6	Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt, or is there any taste in the juice of the mallow?	food
0	Job 8:13	Such are the paths of all who forget God; the hope of the godless shall perish.	trust
0	Job 8:2-10:12	&ldquo;How long will you say these things, and the words of your mouth be a great wind? Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert the right? If your children have sinned against him, he has delivered them into the hand of their transgression. If you will seek God and plead with the Almighty for mercy, if you are pure and upright, surely then he will rouse himself for you and restore your rightful habitation. ...	safety
0	Job 9:10	Who does great things beyond searching out, and marvelous things beyond number.	miracles
0	Joel 1:14	Consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the Lord your God, and cry out to the Lord.	fasting
0	Joel 1:5	Awake, you drunkards, and weep, and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine, for it is cut off from your mouth.	wine
0	Joel 2:12	&ldquo;Yet even now,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning;	conversion,fasting
0	Joel 2:12-13	&ldquo;Yet even now,&rdquo; declares the Lord, &ldquo;return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts and not your garments.&rdquo; Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents over disaster.	fasting
0	Joel 2:13	And rend your hearts and not your garments.&rdquo; Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents over disaster.	forgiveness,patience,repentance,transformation
0	Joel 2:15	Blow the trumpet in Zion; consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly;	fasting
0	Joel 2:19	The Lord answered and said to his people, &ldquo;Behold, I am sending to you grain, wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.	wine
0	Joel 2:21	&ldquo;Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice, for the Lord has done great things!	blessing
0	Joel 2:23	&ldquo;Be glad, O children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God, for he has given the early rain for your vindication; he has poured down for you abundant rain, the early and the latter rain, as before.	blessing
0	Joel 2:24	&ldquo;The threshing floors shall be full of grain; the vats shall overflow with wine and oil.	wine
0	Joel 2:26	&ldquo;You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the name of the Lord your God, who has dealt wondrously with you. And my people shall never again be put to shame.	blessing
0	Joel 2:28-32	&ldquo;And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit. &ldquo;And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls.	pentecost,prophecy
0	Joel 2:32	And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls.	redeemer
0	Joel 3:13	Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the winepress is full. The vats overflow, for their evil is great.	harvest
0	Joel 3:16	The Lord roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth quake. But the Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel.	hope
0	Joel 3:3	And have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it.	wine
0	John 1:1	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.	blameless,body,comforter,creation,evil,faith,fruitfulness,god,jesus,redeemer,sadness,the-word
0	John 1:11	He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him.	almighty,messiah
0	John 1:1-14:31	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. ...	the-word
0	John 1:1-15	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. ...	body
0	John 1:12	But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,	acknowledging,children,covenant,eternal-life,evangelism,faith,life,nearness,rebirth,salvation,valuable
0	John 1:1-2	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God.	the-word
0	John 1:12-13	But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.	rebirth
0	John 1:13	Who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.	rebirth
0	John 1:1-3	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.	creation
0	John 1:1-3:36	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. ...	the-word
0	John 1:14	And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.	blameless,christmas,comforter,crucifixion,father,god,grace,jesus,messiah,redeemer,sacrifice,truth,weakness,the-word
0	John 1:1-5	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.	dependence
0	John 1:1-51	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. ...	ascension,awe,grace,rebirth,relationships,truth
0	John 1:15-18	(John bore witness about him, and cried out, &ldquo;This was he of whom I said, &lsquo;He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me.&rsquo;&rdquo;) And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known.	confession
0	John 1:16	And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace.	blessing,grace
0	John 1:17	For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.	grace,law,truth
0	John 1:18	No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known.	almighty,father,jesus,mediator,nearness,redeemer
0	John 1:19-25	And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, &ldquo;Who are you?&rdquo; He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, &ldquo;I am not the Christ.&rdquo; And they asked him, &ldquo;What then? Are you Elijah?&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;I am not.&rdquo; &ldquo;Are you the Prophet?&rdquo; And he answered, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; So they said to him, &ldquo;Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, &lsquo;Make straight the way of the Lord,&rsquo; as the prophet Isaiah said.&rdquo; ...	almighty
0	John 1:2	He was in the beginning with God.	overcoming
0	John 1:21	And they asked him, &ldquo;What then? Are you Elijah?&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;I am not.&rdquo; &ldquo;Are you the Prophet?&rdquo; And he answered, &ldquo;No.&rdquo;	almighty
0	John 1:25	They asked him, &ldquo;Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?&rdquo;	almighty
0	John 1:29	The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, &ldquo;Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!	covenant,messiah,redeemer,sacrifice
0	John 1:29-33	The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, &ldquo;Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! This is he of whom I said, &lsquo;After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me.&rsquo; I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel.&rdquo; And John bore witness: &ldquo;I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, &lsquo;He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.&rsquo;	baptism
0	John 1:3	All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.	awe,creation,jesus,redeemer
0	John 1:33	I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, &lsquo;He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.&rsquo;	baptism
0	John 1:4	In him was life, and the life was the light of men.	health,light
0	John 1:41	He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, &ldquo;We have found the Messiah&rdquo; (which means Christ).	messiah
0	John 1:4-9	In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. ...	light
0	John 1:5	The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.	evil,light,overcoming
0	John 1:51	And he said to him, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.&rdquo;	angels
0	John 1:7	He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him.	light
0	John 1:7-9	He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.	light
0	John 1:8	He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light.	light
0	John 1:9	The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.	light,redeemer
0	John 1:9-10	The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him.	christmas
0	John 10:10	The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.	blood,christmas,conversion,death,devil,equipment,evil,freedom,healing,health,jesus,life,promises,sickness,thoughts,trust
0	John 10:11	I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.	jesus,redeemer,sacrifice
0	John 10:1-42	&ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.&rdquo; ...	awe,poverty
0	John 10:1-5	&ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.&rdquo;	listening
0	John 10:16	And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.	church
0	John 10:17-18	For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.&rdquo;	easter
0	John 10:22-11:22	At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, &ldquo;How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock. ...	christmas
0	John 10:2-4	But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice.	listening
0	John 10:27	My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.	eternal-life,listening
0	John 10:27-30	My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one.&rdquo;	savior
0	John 10:28	I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.	eternal-life,heaven,safety,salvation
0	John 10:28-30	I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one.&rdquo;	father,protection
0	John 10:29	My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand.	nearness,sadness
0	John 10:30	I and the Father are one.&rdquo;	awe,comforter,dependence,father,jesus,redeemer
0	John 10:30-33	I and the Father are one.&rdquo; The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, &ldquo;I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?&rdquo; The Jews answered him, &ldquo;It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God.&rdquo;	father,jesus
0	John 10:35	If he called them gods to whom the word of God came&mdash;and Scripture cannot be broken&mdash;	fruitfulness
0	John 10:40	He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained.	baptism
0	John 10:9	I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture.	eternal-life,salvation
0	John 10:9-11	I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.	savior
0	John 11:11-14	After saying these things, he said to them, &ldquo;Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him.&rdquo; The disciples said to him, &ldquo;Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.&rdquo; Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, &ldquo;Lazarus has died,	death
0	John 11:1-44	Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, &ldquo;Lord, he whom you love is ill.&rdquo; But when Jesus heard it he said, &ldquo;This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.&rdquo; Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. ...	miracles
0	John 11:1-57	Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, &ldquo;Lord, he whom you love is ill.&rdquo; But when Jesus heard it he said, &ldquo;This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.&rdquo; Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. ...	sickness
0	John 11:25	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live,	death,easter,eternal-life,jesus,life,redeemer,resurrection
0	John 11:25-26	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?&rdquo;	death,easter,eternal-life,faith,life,resurrection,salvation,savior,transformation
0	John 11:26	And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?&rdquo;	death,eternal-life
0	John 11:35	Jesus wept.	jesus
0	John 11:4	But when Jesus heard it he said, &ldquo;This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.&rdquo;	miracles
0	John 11:40	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?&rdquo;	faith
0	John 11:40-42	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?&rdquo; So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, &ldquo;Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me.&rdquo;	miracles
0	John 11:41	So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, &ldquo;Father, I thank you that you have heard me.	gratitude
0	John 11:55	Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves.	purification
0	John 12:13	So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, &ldquo;Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!&rdquo;	prophecy
0	John 12:15	&ldquo;Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!&rdquo;	prophecy
0	John 12:25	Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.	eternal-life,life
0	John 12:26	If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.	evangelism,serving
0	John 12:31	Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of this world be cast out.	devil
0	John 12:35	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.	light
0	John 12:35-36	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.&rdquo; When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them.	light,salvation
0	John 12:36	While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.&rdquo; When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them.	light
0	John 12:40	&ldquo;He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them.&rdquo;	healing,heart
0	John 12:41	Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him.	redeemer
0	John 12:42	Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue;	confession
0	John 12:43	For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God.	confession
0	John 12:46	I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness.	light
0	John 12:47-48	If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.	judgment
0	John 12:48	The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.	judgment,the-word
0	John 12:49	For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment&mdash;what to say and what to speak.	nearness,sadness
0	John 12:6	He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it.	greed
0	John 13:1-17	Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. ...	serving
0	John 13:12-14	When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, &ldquo;Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.	serving
0	John 13:15	For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you.	desires
0	John 13:16	Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.	father
0	John 13:17	If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.	obedience
0	John 13:18	I am not speaking of all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But the Scripture will be fulfilled, &lsquo;He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	John 13:2	During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him,	devil
0	John 13:20	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.&rdquo;	community
0	John 13:34	A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.	forgiveness,fruitfulness,love
0	John 13:34-35	A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.&rdquo;	gentleness,kingdom,law,love,neighbor,reconciliation
0	John 13:35	By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.&rdquo;	evangelism,jesus
0	John 13:36	Simon Peter said to him, &ldquo;Lord, where are you going?&rdquo; Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward.&rdquo;	heaven
0	John 14:1	&ldquo;Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me.	almighty,fear,heart,nearness,redeemer,sadness,trust,worrying
0	John 14:10	Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works.	comforter
0	John 14:1-16:33	&ldquo;Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going.&rdquo; Thomas said to him, &ldquo;Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	John 14:12	&ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father.	miracles
0	John 14:13	Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.	prayer,promises
0	John 14:1-3	&ldquo;Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.	death,eternal-life,heaven,second-coming
0	John 14:1-31	&ldquo;Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going.&rdquo; Thomas said to him, &ldquo;Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?&rdquo; ...	comforter,peace,selfishness,truth,worrying
0	John 14:13-14	Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.	prayer
0	John 14:14	If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.	prayer
0	John 14:1-4	&ldquo;Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going.&rdquo;	death
0	John 14:15	&ldquo;If you love me, you will keep my commandments.	baptism,faithfulness,law,love,obedience,pentecost,protection,purification
0	John 14:15-17	&ldquo;If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.	spirit
0	John 14:15-21	&ldquo;If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. &ldquo;I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. ...	orphans
0	John 14:16	And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,	comforter,following,holy-spirit,nearness,sadness,spirit
0	John 14:16-17	And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.	spirit
0	John 14:16-18	And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. &ldquo;I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.	comforter
0	John 14:17	Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.	pentecost,truth
0	John 14:18	&ldquo;I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.	orphans,sadness
0	John 14:19	Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live.	resurrection
0	John 14:2	In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?	heaven,rebirth,sadness
0	John 14:20	In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.	nearness,sadness
0	John 14:21	Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.&rdquo;	love,obedience
0	John 14:23	Jesus answered him, &ldquo;If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.	love,obedience,valuable
0	John 14:2-3	In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.	heaven
0	John 14:24	Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.	nearness,sadness
0	John 14:2-4	In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going.&rdquo;	heaven
0	John 14:26	But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.	comforter,equipment,faithfulness,father,holy-spirit,learning,pentecost,spirit,understanding
0	John 14:27	Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.	courage,death,encouragement,fear,friendship,god,healing,health,heart,hope,life,overcoming,peace,promises,rest,sadness,sickness,speaking,strength,thoughts,trust,understanding,weakness,worrying
0	John 14:28	You heard me say to you, &lsquo;I am going away, and I will come to you.&rsquo; If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.	comforter,father,mediator,nearness,orphans,sadness
0	John 14:3	And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.	ascension,pentecost,second-coming
0	John 14:30	I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me,	devil
0	John 14:31	But I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here.	almighty,nearness,obedience
0	John 14:6	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.	awe,blameless,calling,death,eternal-life,evangelism,evil,faithfulness,father,freedom,fruitfulness,gentleness,god,honesty,jesus,learning,life,light,lying,mediator,messiah,nearness,obedience,planning,purification,rebirth,redeemer,resurrection,sacrifice,salvation,savior,seeking,truth,weakness
0	John 14:6-9	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him.&rdquo; Philip said to him, &ldquo;Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, &lsquo;Show us the Father&rsquo;?	kingdom
0	John 14:9	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, &lsquo;Show us the Father&rsquo;?	blameless,redeemer
0	John 15:10	If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love.	obedience
0	John 15:11	These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full.	joy
0	John 15:1-11	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	harvest
0	John 15:1-12	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	community
0	John 15:1-17:26	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	the-word
0	John 15:12	&ldquo;This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.	jesus,law,love,neighbor,planning,serving
0	John 15:12-13	&ldquo;This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.	community,love
0	John 15:12-14	&ldquo;This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you.	friendship,sacrifice
0	John 15:12-15	&ldquo;This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.	friendship
0	John 15:12-17	&ldquo;This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. ...	family
0	John 15:1-27	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	fruitfulness,salvation
0	John 15:13	Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.	blood,encouragement,friendship,gratitude,jesus,life,love,neighbor,relationships,sacrifice,selfishness,serving
0	John 15:13-15	Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.	friendship
0	John 15:14	You are my friends if you do what I command you.	obedience
0	John 15:15	No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.	friendship
0	John 15:16	You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.	calling,fruitfulness,mind,prayer,promises,weakness
0	John 15:1-7	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	nearness,sadness
0	John 15:18	&ldquo;If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you.	persecution,world
0	John 15:1-8	&ldquo;I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. ...	freedom
0	John 15:18-20	&ldquo;If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: &lsquo;A servant is not greater than his master.&rsquo; If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.	persecution
0	John 15:18-21	&ldquo;If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: &lsquo;A servant is not greater than his master.&rsquo; If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me.	persecution
0	John 15:18-25	&ldquo;If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: &lsquo;A servant is not greater than his master.&rsquo; If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin. ...	persecution
0	John 15:19	If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.	persecution,suffering
0	John 15:19-21	If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: &lsquo;A servant is not greater than his master.&rsquo; If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me.	persecution
0	John 15:2	Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.	fruitfulness
0	John 15:20	Remember the word that I said to you: &lsquo;A servant is not greater than his master.&rsquo; If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.	persecution,reward
0	John 15:24	If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but now they have seen and hated both me and my Father.	judgment
0	John 15:26	&ldquo;But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me.	comforter,contentment,holy-spirit,spirit,truth
0	John 15:3	Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.	blood,purification,the-word
0	John 15:4-5	Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.	fruitfulness
0	John 15:4-8	Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.	kingdom
0	John 15:5	I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.	dependence,fruitfulness,gentleness,grace
0	John 15:7	If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.	evangelism,prayer,promises,sadness
0	John 15:8	By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.	evangelism,fruitfulness
0	John 16:11	Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.	devil
0	John 16:13	When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.	comforter,dependence,promises,redeemer,spirit,truth,understanding
0	John 16:1-33	&ldquo;I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me. But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. &ldquo;I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, &lsquo;Where are you going?&rsquo; ...	peace,serving
0	John 16:1-4	&ldquo;I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me. But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. &ldquo;I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you.	persecution
0	John 16:17	So some of his disciples said to one another, &ldquo;What is this that he says to us, &lsquo;A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me&rsquo;; and, &lsquo;because I am going to the Father&rsquo;?&rdquo;	conversion
0	John 16:2	They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.	persecution
0	John 16:21	When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world.	children
0	John 16:22	So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.	comforter,joy
0	John 16:23-24	In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.	prayer
0	John 16:24	Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.	joy
0	John 16:25	&ldquo;I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father.	rebirth
0	John 16:28	I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father.&rdquo;	nearness,sadness
0	John 16:3	And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me.	overcoming
0	John 16:33	I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.&rdquo;	compassion,courage,encouragement,fear,jesus,joy,life,overcoming,peace,persecution,rest,sadness,safety,sickness,strength,suffering,thoughts,weakness,world,worrying
0	John 16:5	But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, &lsquo;Where are you going?&rsquo;	nearness
0	John 16:7	Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you.	comforter,truth
0	John 16:7-11	Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment: concerning sin, because they do not believe in me; concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer; concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.	spirit
0	John 17:1	When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, &ldquo;Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you,	nearness,sadness
0	John 17:11	And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.	blessing,mediator,nearness,sadness
0	John 17:13	But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.	joy
0	John 17:1-3	When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, &ldquo;Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.	world
0	John 17:13-18	But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. ...	world
0	John 17:14	I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.	nearness,persecution,sadness
0	John 17:15	I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one.	devil,evil,mediator,nearness,protection,sadness,safety
0	John 17:1-5	When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, &ldquo;Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.	kingdom,savior
0	John 17:17	Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.	fruitfulness,holiness,mind,purification,truth,the-word
0	John 17:18-23	As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. &ldquo;I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one, ...	nearness,sadness
0	John 17:19	And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth.	purification
0	John 17:2	Since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.	eternal-life
0	John 17:26	I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them.&rdquo;	nearness
0	John 17:3	And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.	blameless,eternal-life,god,mediator,seeking
0	John 17:4	I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do.	calling,work
0	John 17:6-8	&ldquo;I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you. For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me.	nearness
0	John 17:9	I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.	easter,nearness,sadness
0	John 18:1	When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.	easter
0	John 18:11	So Jesus said to Peter, &ldquo;Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?&rdquo;	suffering
0	John 18:1-40	When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, &ldquo;Whom do you seek?&rdquo; They answered him, &ldquo;Jesus of Nazareth.&rdquo; Jesus said to them, &ldquo;I am he.&rdquo; Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them. ...	faithfulness
0	John 18:33-38	So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, &ldquo;Are you the King of the Jews?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?&rdquo; Pilate answered, &ldquo;Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.&rdquo; Then Pilate said to him, &ldquo;So you are a king?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&mdash;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&rdquo; ...	kingdom
0	John 18:36	Jesus answered, &ldquo;My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.&rdquo;	almighty,kingdom,transformation,world
0	John 18:36-37	Jesus answered, &ldquo;My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.&rdquo; Then Pilate said to him, &ldquo;So you are a king?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&mdash;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	John 18:37	Then Pilate said to him, &ldquo;So you are a king?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&mdash;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&rdquo;	transformation,truth
0	John 18:37-38	Then Pilate said to him, &ldquo;So you are a king?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&mdash;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&rdquo; Pilate said to him, &ldquo;What is truth?&rdquo; After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, &ldquo;I find no guilt in him.	truth
0	John 18:38	Pilate said to him, &ldquo;What is truth?&rdquo; After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, &ldquo;I find no guilt in him.	truth
0	John 19:11	Jesus answered him, &ldquo;You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.&rdquo;	mediator,punishment
0	John 19:17-42	And he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called The Place of a Skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, &ldquo;Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews.&rdquo; Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, &ldquo;Do not write, &lsquo;The King of the Jews,&rsquo; but rather, &lsquo;This man said, I am King of the Jews.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	understanding
0	John 19:20-22	Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, &ldquo;Do not write, &lsquo;The King of the Jews,&rsquo; but rather, &lsquo;This man said, I am King of the Jews.&rsquo;&rdquo; Pilate answered, &ldquo;What I have written I have written.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	John 19:23-24	When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom, so they said to one another, &ldquo;Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be.&rdquo; This was to fulfill the Scripture which says, &ldquo;They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.&rdquo; So the soldiers did these things,	messiah
0	John 19:26-27	When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, &ldquo;Woman, behold, your son!&rdquo; Then he said to the disciple, &ldquo;Behold, your mother!&rdquo; And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home.	relationships
0	John 19:28	After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to fulfill the Scripture), &ldquo;I thirst.&rdquo;	prophecy
0	John 19:30	When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, &ldquo;It is finished,&rdquo; and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.	easter
0	John 19:31	Since it was the day of Preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.	sabbath
0	John 19:33	But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.	messiah
0	John 19:34	But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.	blood,messiah,prophecy
0	John 19:35	He who saw it has borne witness&mdash;his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth&mdash;that you also may believe.	reliability
0	John 19:37	And again another Scripture says, &ldquo;They will look on him whom they have pierced.&rdquo;	fruitfulness,prophecy
0	John 2:10	And said to him, &ldquo;Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now.&rdquo;	wine
0	John 2:11	This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him.	miracles
0	John 2:1-11	On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, &ldquo;They have no wine.&rdquo; And Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come.&rdquo; His mother said to the servants, &ldquo;Do whatever he tells you.&rdquo; ...	miracles,wine
0	John 2:1-25	On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, &ldquo;They have no wine.&rdquo; And Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come.&rdquo; His mother said to the servants, &ldquo;Do whatever he tells you.&rdquo; ...	jesus,wine
0	John 2:18-22	So the Jews said to him, &ldquo;What sign do you show us for doing these things?&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.&rdquo; The Jews then said, &ldquo;It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days?&rdquo; But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken.	resurrection
0	John 2:19	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.&rdquo;	easter,prophecy
0	John 2:9	When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom	wine
0	John 20:1	Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.	easter,pentecost,resurrection
0	John 20:1-18	Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, &ldquo;They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.&rdquo; So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. ...	easter
0	John 20:12	And she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet.	angels
0	John 20:1-31	Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, &ldquo;They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.&rdquo; So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. ...	ascension,jesus
0	John 20:17	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, &lsquo;I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.&rsquo;&rdquo;	ascension,blameless,mediator,nearness,pentecost,sadness,transformation
0	John 20:19	On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, &ldquo;Peace be with you.&rdquo;	peace
0	John 20:19-23	On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, &ldquo;Peace be with you.&rdquo; When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, &ldquo;Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.&rdquo; And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, &ldquo;Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.&rdquo;	confession,sin
0	John 20:19-24	On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, &ldquo;Peace be with you.&rdquo; When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, &ldquo;Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.&rdquo; And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, &ldquo;Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.&rdquo; ...	confession,dependence,evangelism
0	John 20:22	And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, &ldquo;Receive the Holy Spirit.	pentecost,spirit
0	John 20:23	If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.&rdquo;	church,confession
0	John 20:26-29	Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, &ldquo;Peace be with you.&rdquo; Then he said to Thomas, &ldquo;Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe.&rdquo; Thomas answered him, &ldquo;My Lord and my God!&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.&rdquo;	nearness,sadness
0	John 20:28	Thomas answered him, &ldquo;My Lord and my God!&rdquo;	jesus
0	John 20:30	Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;	miracles
0	John 20:30-31	Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book; but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.	confession,miracles
0	John 20:31	But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.	church,faith,messiah,miracles,redeemer
0	John 20:8-9	Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed; for as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.	easter
0	John 21:15-20	When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, &ldquo;Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?&rdquo; He said to him, &ldquo;Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.&rdquo; He said to him, &ldquo;Feed my lambs.&rdquo; He said to him a second time, &ldquo;Simon, son of John, do you love me?&rdquo; He said to him, &ldquo;Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.&rdquo; He said to him, &ldquo;Tend my sheep.&rdquo; He said to him the third time, &ldquo;Simon, son of John, do you love me?&rdquo; Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, &ldquo;Do you love me?&rdquo; and he said to him, &ldquo;Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you.&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.&rdquo; (This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to him, &ldquo;Follow me.&rdquo; ...	nearness
0	John 21:18	Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.&rdquo;	contentment,transformation
0	John 21:19-22	(This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to him, &ldquo;Follow me.&rdquo; Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who had been reclining at table close to him and had said, &ldquo;Lord, who is it that is going to betray you?&rdquo; When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, &ldquo;Lord, what about this man?&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!&rdquo;	weakness
0	John 21:25	Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written.	fruitfulness,redeemer
0	John 21:7	That disciple whom Jesus loved therefore said to Peter, &ldquo;It is the Lord!&rdquo; When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea.	clothing
0	John 21:9	When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread.	bread
0	John 3:1	Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.	awe
0	John 3:10	Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things?	learning
0	John 3:12	If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?	fruitfulness
0	John 3:13	No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.	ascension,heaven,hell
0	John 3:1-36	Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, &ldquo;Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.&rdquo; Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.&rdquo; Nicodemus said to him, &ldquo;How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. ...	acknowledging,eternal-life,holy-spirit,jesus,salvation,transformation
0	John 3:14-16	And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. &ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.	eternal-life
0	John 3:15	That whoever believes in him may have eternal life.	eternal-life
0	John 3:15-16	That whoever believes in him may have eternal life. &ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.	acknowledging
0	John 3:16	&ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.	acknowledging,almighty,ascension,awe,blameless,blood,children,clothing,comforter,confession,conversion,covenant,crucifixion,death,dependence,easter,encouragement,equipment,eternal-life,evangelism,evil,faith,father,forgiveness,freedom,friendship,generosity,gentleness,giving,god,goodness,grace,heart,heaven,hell,holiness,hope,jesus,kingdom,learning,life,love,mediator,mercy,messiah,money,nearness,neighbor,overcoming,peace,pentecost,planning,promises,punishment,purification,rebirth,reconciliation,redeemer,relationships,repentance,rest,resurrection,sacrifice,sadness,salvation,savior,seeking,serving,sickness,sin,spirit,suffering,transformation,trust,understanding,valuable,weakness,the-word,world
0	John 3:16-17	&ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him.	anger,baptism,body,children,covenant,creation,death,dependence,devil,encouragement,evangelism,evil,faithfulness,forgiveness,freedom,giving,god,goodness,gossip,grace,harvest,heaven,hell,holiness,jesus,life,light,listening,love,mercy,mind,obedience,orphans,overcoming,peace,protection,punishment,purification,rebirth,receiving,reconciliation,relationships,resurrection,reward,sacrifice,salvation,serving,sin,soul,suffering,truth,weakness,worship
0	John 3:16-18	&ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.	faithfulness,hell,salvation
0	John 3:16-21	&ldquo;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. ...	lying
0	John 3:17	For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him.	jesus,judgment,mercy,world
0	John 3:17-18	For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.	judgment
0	John 3:17-21	For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.&rdquo;	addiction,salvation
0	John 3:18	Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.	almighty,blameless,judgment,mediator
0	John 3:1-8	Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, &ldquo;Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.&rdquo; Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.&rdquo; Nicodemus said to him, &ldquo;How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. ...	world
0	John 3:19	And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil.	kingdom,light
0	John 3:19-21	And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.&rdquo;	light
0	John 3:19-28	And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.&rdquo; After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing. John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized ...	light
0	John 3:2	This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, &ldquo;Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.&rdquo;	nearness
0	John 3:20	For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed.	evil,receiving
0	John 3:21	But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.&rdquo;	righteousness
0	John 3:22	After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing.	baptism
0	John 3:23	John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized	baptism
0	John 3:3	Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.&rdquo;	overcoming,purification,rebirth,receiving,relationships,salvation,sin,understanding
0	John 3:30	He must increase, but I must decrease.&rdquo;	humility
0	John 3:34	For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure.	holy-spirit
0	John 3:36	Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.	baptism,blameless,eternal-life,faith,heaven,hell,life,mind,punishment,rebirth,reconciliation,salvation
0	John 3:4	Nicodemus said to him, &ldquo;How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?&rdquo;	rebirth
0	John 3:5	Jesus answered, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.	baptism,conversion,rebirth,salvation
0	John 3:5-6	Jesus answered, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.	rebirth
0	John 3:5-8	Jesus answered, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, &lsquo;You must be born again.&rsquo; The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.&rdquo;	rebirth
0	John 3:6	That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.	rebirth
0	John 3:8	The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.&rdquo;	almighty,rebirth
0	John 4:1	Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John	baptism
0	John 4:11-14	The woman said to him, &ldquo;Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock.&rdquo; Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.&rdquo;	understanding
0	John 4:1-2	Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John (although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),	baptism
0	John 4:14	But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.&rdquo;	bread,eternal-life,transformation
0	John 4:1-54	Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John (although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples), he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. ...	harvest,overcoming
0	John 4:18	For you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true.&rdquo;	punishment
0	John 4:19	The woman said to him, &ldquo;Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.	nearness
0	John 4:2	(although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),	baptism,punishment
0	John 4:21	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.	worship
0	John 4:21-24	Jesus said to her, &ldquo;Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.&rdquo;	worship
0	John 4:23	But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him.	faithfulness,singing,truth,worship
0	John 4:23-24	But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.&rdquo;	honesty,mediator,nearness,sadness,singing,world,worship
0	John 4:24	God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.&rdquo;	almighty,awe,easter,god,mediator,mind,nearness,redeemer,singing,spirit,truth,worship
0	John 4:25	The woman said to him, &ldquo;I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ). When he comes, he will tell us all things.&rdquo;	messiah
0	John 4:25-26	The woman said to him, &ldquo;I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ). When he comes, he will tell us all things.&rdquo; Jesus said to her, &ldquo;I who speak to you am he.&rdquo;	messiah
0	John 4:34	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work.	food
0	John 4:35	Do you not say, &lsquo;There are yet four months, then comes the harvest&rsquo;? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest.	harvest
0	John 4:35-36	Do you not say, &lsquo;There are yet four months, then comes the harvest&rsquo;? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together.	christmas,harvest
0	John 4:35-38	Do you not say, &lsquo;There are yet four months, then comes the harvest&rsquo;? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, &lsquo;One sows and another reaps.&rsquo; I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.&rdquo;	harvest
0	John 4:36	Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together.	harvest
0	John 4:36-38	Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, &lsquo;One sows and another reaps.&rsquo; I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.&rdquo;	evangelism
0	John 4:37	For here the saying holds true, &lsquo;One sows and another reaps.&rsquo;	evangelism
0	John 4:42	They said to the woman, &ldquo;It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.&rdquo;	redeemer
0	John 4:46-54	So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.&rdquo; The official said to him, &ldquo;Sir, come down before my child dies.&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Go; your son will live.&rdquo; The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. ...	miracles
0	John 4:48	So Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.&rdquo;	miracles
0	John 4:48-53	So Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.&rdquo; The official said to him, &ldquo;Sir, come down before my child dies.&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Go; your son will live.&rdquo; The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, &ldquo;Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.&rdquo; ...	miracles
0	John 5:14	Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, &ldquo;See, you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you.&rdquo;	sickness,sin
0	John 5:17	But Jesus answered them, &ldquo;My Father is working until now, and I am working.&rdquo;	work
0	John 5:19	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise.	nearness
0	John 5:20	For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel.	nearness
0	John 5:21	For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will.	rebirth
0	John 5:22	The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,	judgment,redeemer
0	John 5:24	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life.	church,death,eternal-life,evangelism,judgment,life,mediator,resurrection,salvation,the-word
0	John 5:24-26	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself.	death
0	John 5:25	&ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.	eternal-life
0	John 5:26-29	For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.	world
0	John 5:28	Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice	hell
0	John 5:28-29	Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.	death,eternal-life,hell,resurrection,second-coming
0	John 5:29	And come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.	awe,eternal-life,heaven,hell,punishment
0	John 5:30	&ldquo;I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me.	almighty,dependence,father,judgment,nearness,obedience,sadness,seeking
0	John 5:31	If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not deemed true.	nearness
0	John 5:31-32	If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not deemed true. There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true.	nearness
0	John 5:35	He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.	light
0	John 5:39	You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,	comforter,eternal-life
0	John 5:5-14	One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, &ldquo;Do you want to be healed?&rdquo; The sick man answered him, &ldquo;Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going another steps down before me.&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Get up, take up your bed, and walk.&rdquo; And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. ...	sabbath
0	John 6:11	Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted.	nearness
0	John 6:1-71	After this Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes, then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, &ldquo;Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat?&rdquo; ...	bread,miracles
0	John 6:26-66	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.&rdquo; Then they said to him, &ldquo;What must we do, to be doing the works of God?&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent.&rdquo; So they said to him, &ldquo;Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? ...	food
0	John 6:27	Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.&rdquo;	eternal-life,food,mediator,work
0	John 6:32	Jesus then said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.	nearness,sadness
0	John 6:32-35	Jesus then said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;Sir, give us this bread always.&rdquo; Jesus said to them, &ldquo;I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.	bread
0	John 6:33	For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.&rdquo;	bread
0	John 6:35	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.	bread,eternal-life,faith,food,life
0	John 6:37	All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.	salvation
0	John 6:39-40	And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	John 6:40	For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.&rdquo;	eternal-life,redeemer,resurrection,soul
0	John 6:44	No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.	blameless,bread,calling,conversion,rebirth,repentance,salvation
0	John 6:45	It is written in the Prophets, &lsquo;And they will all be taught by God.&rsquo; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&mdash;	learning,prophecy
0	John 6:47	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.	eternal-life,faith
0	John 6:47-50	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die.	bread,dependence,heaven
0	John 6:48	I am the bread of life.	bread
0	John 6:48-51	I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.&rdquo;	savior
0	John 6:50	This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die.	bread
0	John 6:50-58	This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.&rdquo; The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, &ldquo;How can this man give us his flesh to eat?&rdquo; So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. ...	eternal-life
0	John 6:50-71	This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.&rdquo; The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, &ldquo;How can this man give us his flesh to eat?&rdquo; So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. ...	blood,bread,dependence,evangelism,heaven
0	John 6:51	I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.&rdquo;	bread,food,jesus
0	John 6:53	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.	blood,nearness
0	John 6:53-56	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.	blood,wine
0	John 6:54	Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.	resurrection
0	John 6:55-59	For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.&rdquo; Jesus said these things in the synagogue, as he taught at Capernaum.	blood,bread,dependence
0	John 6:63	It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.	grace,spirit,the-word
0	John 6:66-71	After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the Twelve, &ldquo;Do you want to go away as well?&rdquo; Simon Peter answered him, &ldquo;Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God.&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil.&rdquo; ...	bread
0	John 6:67-71	So Jesus said to the Twelve, &ldquo;Do you want to go away as well?&rdquo; Simon Peter answered him, &ldquo;Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God.&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil.&rdquo; He spoke of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the Twelve, was going to betray him.	dependence,evangelism
0	John 6:68	Simon Peter answered him, &ldquo;Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life,	eternal-life
0	John 6:70	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil.&rdquo;	devil
0	John 6:9	&ldquo;There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many?&rdquo;	bread
0	John 7:1-16:33	After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the Jews' Feast of Booths was at hand. So his brothers said to him, &ldquo;Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.&rdquo; For not even his brothers believed in him. ...	the-word
0	John 7:15	The Jews therefore marveled, saying, &ldquo;How is it that this man has learning, when he has never studied?&rdquo;	learning
0	John 7:16	So Jesus answered them, &ldquo;My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.	almighty,learning,nearness
0	John 7:21-24	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;I did one work, and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	John 7:24	Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.&rdquo;	judgment,mind,receiving
0	John 7:28	So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, &ldquo;You know me, and you know where I come from? But I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know.	nearness,sadness
0	John 7:29	I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me.&rdquo;	nearness,sadness
0	John 7:37-39	On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, &ldquo;If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, &lsquo;Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.&rsquo;&rdquo; Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.	pentecost
0	John 7:38	Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, &lsquo;Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.&rsquo;&rdquo;	faith,life,the-word
0	John 8:1-11	But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst they said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?&rdquo; ...	gentleness
0	John 8:12	Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, &ldquo;I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.&rdquo;	bread,following,jesus,life,light,redeemer,wisdom
0	John 8:14	Jesus answered, &ldquo;Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.	nearness
0	John 8:1-59	But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst they said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?&rdquo; ...	awe,light
0	John 8:24	I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.&rdquo;	evangelism,faith,jesus,redeemer
0	John 8:28	So Jesus said to them, &ldquo;When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me.	nearness,sadness
0	John 8:31	So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, &ldquo;If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,	transformation
0	John 8:3-11	The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst they said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?&rdquo; This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, &ldquo;Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.&rdquo; ...	punishment
0	John 8:31-32	So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, &ldquo;If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.&rdquo;	freedom,obedience,truth,the-word
0	John 8:31-36	So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, &ldquo;If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.&rdquo; They answered him, &ldquo;We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, &lsquo;You will become free&rsquo;?&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever. ...	freedom
0	John 8:32	And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.&rdquo;	conversion,freedom,honesty,lying,materialism,seeking,truth,weakness,wisdom
0	John 8:32-36	And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.&rdquo; They answered him, &ldquo;We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, &lsquo;You will become free&rsquo;?&rdquo; Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.	freedom
0	John 8:34	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.	addiction,receiving,sin,slavery
0	John 8:34-36	Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.	grace
0	John 8:36	So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.	addiction,dependence,freedom,promises,slavery,truth
0	John 8:42	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me.	mediator,nearness
0	John 8:43-47	Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God.&rdquo;	lying
0	John 8:44	You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.	awe,devil,fruitfulness,lying,pride,truth
0	John 8:46	Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?	truth
0	John 8:47	Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God.&rdquo;	listening
0	John 8:51	Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death.&rdquo;	obedience
0	John 8:58	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.&rdquo;	comforter,father,jesus,redeemer
0	John 8:7	And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, &ldquo;Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.&rdquo;	forgiveness
0	John 9:1-11	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.&rdquo; ...	transformation
0	John 9:1-3	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him.	suffering
0	John 9:1-34	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.&rdquo; ...	sabbath
0	John 9:1-41	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.&rdquo; ...	dependence,miracles
0	John 9:1-7	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.&rdquo; ...	sickness
0	John 9:22-38	(His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue.) Therefore his parents said, &ldquo;He is of age; ask him.&rdquo; So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, &ldquo;Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?&rdquo; ...	confession
0	John 9:2-3	And his disciples asked him, &ldquo;Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him.	suffering
0	John 9:31	We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him.	listening,prayer
0	John 9:35-38	Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, &ldquo;Do you believe in the Son of Man?&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him?&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you.&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;Lord, I believe,&rdquo; and he worshiped him.	jesus
0	John 9:38	He said, &ldquo;Lord, I believe,&rdquo; and he worshiped him.	redeemer
0	John 9:41	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;If you were blind, you would have no guilt; but now that you say, &lsquo;We see,&rsquo; your guilt remains.	judgment
0	John 9:5	As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.&rdquo;	light,redeemer
0	Jonah 1:17	And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.	miracles
0	Jonah 2:8	Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love.	idols
0	Jonah 2:9	But I with the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you; what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord!&rdquo;	gratitude,sacrifice,salvation
0	Jonah 3:10	When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it.	repentance
0	Jonah 3:5	And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them.	fasting
0	Jonah 3:5-10	And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh, &ldquo;By the decree of the king and his nobles: Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish.&rdquo; ...	fasting
0	Jonah 4:2	And he prayed to the Lord and said, &ldquo;O Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish; for I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster.	mercy
0	Jonah 4:4	And the Lord said, &ldquo;Do you do well to be angry?&rdquo;	anger
0	Joshua 1:1-18	After the death of Moses the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' assistant, &ldquo;Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses. From the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. ...	courage,poverty
0	Joshua 1:3	Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses.	acknowledging
0	Joshua 1:8	This Book of the Law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success.	debt,law,learning,mind,the-word
0	Joshua 1:9	Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.&rdquo;	addiction,courage,encouragement,faith,fear,god,life,overcoming,promises,sadness,safety,strength,thoughts,trust,weakness,worrying
0	Joshua 1:9-11	Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.&rdquo; And Joshua commanded the officers of the people, &ldquo;Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people, &lsquo;Prepare your provisions, for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving you to possess.&rsquo;&rdquo;	strength
0	Joshua 10:25	And Joshua said to them, &ldquo;Do not be afraid or dismayed; be strong and courageous. For thus the Lord will do to all your enemies against whom you fight.&rdquo;	courage
0	Joshua 2:11	And as soon as we heard it, our hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, he is God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath.	courage
0	Joshua 2:4-6	But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. And she said, &ldquo;True, the men came to me, but I did not know where they were from. And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them.&rdquo; But she had brought them up to the roof and hid them with the stalks of flax that she had laid in order on the roof.	lying
0	Joshua 22:2	And said to them, &ldquo;You have kept all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you and have obeyed my voice in all that I have commanded you.	obedience
0	Joshua 22:5	Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, to love the Lord your God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.&rdquo;	law,obedience,serving
0	Joshua 23:14	&ldquo;And now I am about to go the way of all the earth, and you know in your hearts and souls, all of you, that not one word has failed of all the good things that the Lord your God promised concerning you. All have come to pass for you; not one of them has failed.	promises,reliability
0	Joshua 23:15	But just as all the good things that the Lord your God promised concerning you have been fulfilled for you, so the Lord will bring upon you all the evil things, until he has destroyed you from off this good land that the Lord your God has given you,	reliability
0	Joshua 23:5	The Lord your God will push them back before you and drive them out of your sight. And you shall possess their land, just as the Lord your God promised you.	reliability
0	Joshua 24:1-33	Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and summoned the elders, the heads, the judges, and the officers of Israel. And they presented themselves before God. And Joshua said to all the people, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, &lsquo;Long ago, your fathers lived beyond the Euphrates, Terah, the father of Abraham and of Nahor; and they served other gods. Then I took your father Abraham from beyond the River and led him through all the land of Canaan, and made his offspring many. I gave him Isaac. And to Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. And I gave Esau the hill country of Seir to possess, but Jacob and his children went down to Egypt. And I sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt with what I did in the midst of it, and afterward I brought you out. ...	faithfulness
0	Joshua 24:15	And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.&rdquo;	awe,christmas,evil,family,serving
0	Joshua 3:15	And as soon as those bearing the ark had come as far as the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water (now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest),	harvest
0	Joshua 4:22-6:3	Then you shall let your children know, &lsquo;Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground.&rsquo; For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over, so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty, that you may fear the Lord your God forever.&rdquo; As soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel until they had crossed over, their hearts melted and there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, &ldquo;Make flint knives and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time.&rdquo; ...	food
0	Joshua 5:6	For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished, because they did not obey the voice of the Lord; the Lord swore to them that he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give to us, a land flowing with milk and honey.	obedience
0	Joshua 7:21	When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, and 200 shekels of silver, and a bar of gold weighing 50 shekels, then I coveted them and took them. And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent, with the silver underneath.&rdquo;	greed,materialism,temptation
0	Joshua 9:12	Here is our bread. It was still warm when we took it from our houses as our food for the journey on the day we set out to come to you, but now, behold, it is dry and crumbly.	bread
0	Joshua 9:4	They on their part acted with cunning and went and made ready provisions and took worn-out sacks for their donkeys, and wineskins, worn-out and torn and mended,	wine
0	Jude 1:11	Woe to them! For they walked in the way of Cain and abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error and perished in Korah's rebellion.	greed
0	Jude 1:12-13	These are hidden reefs at your love feasts, as they feast with you without fear, shepherds feeding themselves; waterless clouds, swept along by winds; fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted; wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.	hell
0	Jude 1:13	Wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.	hell
0	Jude 1:14	It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, &ldquo;Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones,	ascension,blameless,judgment,second-coming
0	Jude 1:15	To execute judgment on all and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Jude 1:17	But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.	prophecy
0	Jude 1:2	May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.	mercy,mind,peace
0	Jude 1:20	But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit,	prayer
0	Jude 1:21	Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.	eternal-life
0	Jude 1:22	And have mercy on those who doubt;	compassion
0	Jude 1:23-25	Save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.	mercy
0	Jude 1:24	Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy,	blessing,redeemer
0	Jude 1:24-25	Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.	addiction,kingdom
0	Jude 1:25	To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.	praise
0	Jude 1:3	Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints.	almighty,freedom,fruitfulness,purification
0	Jude 1:4	For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.	grace
0	Jude 1:6	And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day&mdash;	angels,blameless,judgment,nearness
0	Jude 1:7	Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.	acknowledging,almighty,awe,hell,punishment
0	Jude 1:9	But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, &ldquo;The Lord rebuke you.&rdquo;	angels,devil,mediator
0	Judges 13:1-25	And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, so the Lord gave them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. There was a certain man of Zorah, of the tribe of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. And his wife was barren and had no children. And the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, &ldquo;Behold, you are barren and have not borne children, but you shall conceive and bear a son. Therefore be careful and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean, for behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines.&rdquo; ...	family
0	Judges 13:4	Therefore be careful and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean,	wine
0	Judges 13:5	For behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines.&rdquo;	wine
0	Judges 13:6	Then the woman came and told her husband, &ldquo;A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like the appearance of the angel of God, very awesome. I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name,	angels
0	Judges 14:8-9	After some days he returned to take her. And he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey. He scraped it out into his hands and went on, eating as he went. And he came to his father and mother and gave some to them, and they ate. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey from the carcass of the lion.	food
0	Judges 15:1	After some days, at the time of wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife with a young goat. And he said, &ldquo;I will go in to my wife in the chamber.&rdquo; But her father would not allow him to go in.	harvest
0	Judges 17:10	And Micah said to him, &ldquo;Stay with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten pieces of silver a year and a suit of clothes and your living.&rdquo; And the Levite went in.	father
0	Judges 17:1-19:30	There was a man of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah. And he said to his mother, &ldquo;The 1,100 pieces of silver that were taken from you, about which you uttered a curse, and also spoke it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it.&rdquo; And his mother said, &ldquo;Blessed be my son by the Lord.&rdquo; And he restored the 1,100 pieces of silver to his mother. And his mother said, &ldquo;I dedicate the silver to the Lord from my hand for my son, to make a carved image and a metal image. Now therefore I will restore it to you.&rdquo; So when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took 200 pieces of silver and gave it to the silversmith, who made it into a carved image and a metal image. And it was in the house of Micah. And the man Micah had a shrine, and he made an ephod and household gods, and ordained one of his sons, who became his priest. ...	idols
0	Judges 19:1-30	In those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was sojourning in the remote parts of the hill country of Ephraim, who took to himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah. And his concubine was unfaithful to him, and she went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem in Judah, and was there some four months. Then her husband arose and went after her, to speak kindly to her and bring her back. He had with him his servant and a couple of donkeys. And she brought him into her father's house. And when the girl's father saw him, he came with joy to meet him. And his father-in-law, the girl's father, made him stay, and he remained with him three days. So they ate and drank and spent the night there. And on the fourth day they arose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the girl's father said to his son-in-law, &ldquo;Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and after that you may go.&rdquo; ...	acknowledging
0	Judges 20:26	Then all the people of Israel, the whole army, went up and came to Bethel and wept. They sat there before the Lord and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord.	fasting
0	Judges 5:3	&ldquo;Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes; to the Lord I will sing; I will make melody to the Lord, the God of Israel.	praise
0	Judges 7:13	When Gideon came, behold, a man was telling a dream to his comrade. And he said, &ldquo;Behold, I dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian and came to the tent and struck it so that it fell and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat.&rdquo;	bread
0	Lamentations 1:11	All her people groan as they search for bread; they trade their treasures for food to revive their strength. &ldquo;Look, O Lord, and see, for I am despised.&rdquo;	bread
0	Lamentations 2:15	All who pass along the way clap their hands at you; they hiss and wag their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem: &ldquo;Is this the city that was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth?&rdquo;	beauty
0	Lamentations 2:6	He has laid waste his booth like a garden, laid in ruins his meeting place; the Lord has made Zion forget festival and Sabbath, and in his fierce indignation has spurned king and priest.	sabbath
0	Lamentations 3:1-66	I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath; he has driven and brought me into darkness without any light; surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long. He has made my flesh and my skin waste away; he has broken my bones; he has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation; ...	faithfulness
0	Lamentations 3:21	But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope:	hope
0	Lamentations 3:22	The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases; his mercies never come to an end;	mercy
0	Lamentations 3:22-23	The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases; his mercies never come to an end; they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.	compassion,faithfulness,mercy,reliability,worrying
0	Lamentations 3:22-26	The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases; his mercies never come to an end; they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness. &ldquo;The Lord is my portion,&rdquo; says my soul, &ldquo;therefore I will hope in him.&rdquo; The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord.	dependence
0	Lamentations 3:23	They are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.	gratitude
0	Lamentations 3:24	&ldquo;The Lord is my portion,&rdquo; says my soul, &ldquo;therefore I will hope in him.&rdquo;	hope
0	Lamentations 3:25	The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.	seeking
0	Lamentations 3:25-27	The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.	patience
0	Lamentations 3:25-5:22	The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth. Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him; let him put his mouth in the dust&mdash; there may yet be hope; ...	poverty
0	Lamentations 3:32	But, though he cause grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love;	compassion
0	Lamentations 3:41	Let us lift up our hearts and hands to God in heaven:	heaven
0	Lamentations 3:57	You came near when I called on you; you said, &lsquo;Do not fear!&rsquo;	fear
0	Lamentations 4:4	The tongue of the nursing infant sticks to the roof of its mouth for thirst; the children beg for food, but no one gives to them.	bread
0	Lamentations 5:19	But you, O Lord, reign forever; your throne endures to all generations.	reliability
0	Lamentations 5:19-21	But you, O Lord, reign forever; your throne endures to all generations. Why do you forget us forever, why do you forsake us for so many days? Restore us to yourself, O Lord, that we may be restored! Renew our days as of old&mdash;	kingdom
0	Lamentations 5:21	Restore us to yourself, O Lord, that we may be restored! Renew our days as of old&mdash;	repentance
0	Lamentations 5:3	We have become orphans, fatherless; our mothers are like widows.	orphans
0	Leviticus 1:5	Then he shall kill the bull before the Lord, and Aaron's sons the priests shall bring the blood and throw the blood against the sides of the altar that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting.	blood
0	Leviticus 10:9	&ldquo;Drink no wine or strong drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.	wine
0	Leviticus 11:1-47	And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying to them, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel, saying, These are the living things that you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth. Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed and chews the cud, among the animals, you may eat. Nevertheless, among those that chew the cud or part the hoof, you shall not eat these: The camel, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you. And the rock badger, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you. ...	food,health,holiness
0	Leviticus 11:44	For I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground.	holiness
0	Leviticus 11:44-47	For I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground. For I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo; This is the law about beast and bird and every living creature that moves through the waters and every creature that swarms on the ground, to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean and between the living creature that may be eaten and the living creature that may not be eaten.	holiness
0	Leviticus 11:45	For I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.&rdquo;	holiness
0	Leviticus 12:8	And if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean.&rsquo;&rdquo;	purification
0	Leviticus 14:4-7	The priest shall command them to take for him who is to be cleansed two live clean birds and cedarwood and scarlet yarn and hyssop. And the priest shall command them to kill one of the birds in an earthenware vessel over fresh water. He shall take the live bird with the cedarwood and the scarlet yarn and the hyssop, and dip them and the live bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the fresh water. And he shall sprinkle it seven times on him who is to be cleansed of the leprous disease. Then he shall pronounce him clean and shall let the living bird go into the open field.	blood
0	Leviticus 14:8-9	And he who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes and shave off all his hair and bathe himself in water, and he shall be clean. And after that he may come into the camp, but live outside his tent seven days. And on the seventh day he shall shave off all his hair from his head, his beard, and his eyebrows. He shall shave off all his hair, and then he shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and he shall be clean.	purification
0	Leviticus 15:17	And every garment and every skin on which the semen comes shall be washed with water and be unclean until the evening.	purification
0	Leviticus 16:29	&ldquo;And it shall be a statute to you forever that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict yourselves and shall do no work, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you.	fasting
0	Leviticus 16:29-31	&ldquo;And it shall be a statute to you forever that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict yourselves and shall do no work, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you. For on this day shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord from all your sins. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; it is a statute forever.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 17:10	&ldquo;If any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among them eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people.	blood
0	Leviticus 17:10-14	&ldquo;If any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among them eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood. &ldquo;Any one also of the people of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any beast or bird that may be eaten shall pour out its blood and cover it with earth. For the life of every creature is its blood: its blood is its life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.	blood
0	Leviticus 17:11	For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life.	blood,sacrifice
0	Leviticus 17:11-14	For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood. &ldquo;Any one also of the people of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any beast or bird that may be eaten shall pour out its blood and cover it with earth. For the life of every creature is its blood: its blood is its life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.	blood
0	Leviticus 17:1-16	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the people of Israel and say to them, This is the thing that the Lord has commanded. If any one of the house of Israel kills an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp, or kills it outside the camp, and does not bring it to the entrance of the tent of meeting to offer it as a gift to the Lord in front of the tabernacle of the Lord, bloodguilt shall be imputed to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people. This is to the end that the people of Israel may bring their sacrifices that they sacrifice in the open field, that they may bring them to the Lord, to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and sacrifice them as sacrifices of peace offerings to the Lord. ...	blood
0	Leviticus 17:14	For the life of every creature is its blood: its blood is its life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.	blood
0	Leviticus 17:7	So they shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to goat demons, after whom they whore. This shall be a statute forever for them throughout their generations.	blood
0	Leviticus 18:20	And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor's wife and so make yourself unclean with her.	awe,relationships
0	Leviticus 18:22	You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination.	acknowledging,almighty,desires,receiving,relationships
0	Leviticus 18:24	&ldquo;Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, for by all these the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean,	receiving
0	Leviticus 19:11	&ldquo;You shall not steal; you shall not deal falsely; you shall not lie to one another.	honesty,lying
0	Leviticus 19:11-12	&ldquo;You shall not steal; you shall not deal falsely; you shall not lie to one another. You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God: I am the Lord.	lying
0	Leviticus 19:13	&ldquo;You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.	money
0	Leviticus 19:1-37	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am the Lord your God. Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves any gods of cast metal: I am the Lord your God. &ldquo;When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the Lord, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted. ...	holiness
0	Leviticus 19:14-16	You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God: I am the Lord. &ldquo;You shall do no injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor. You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand up against the life of your neighbor: I am the Lord.	poverty
0	Leviticus 19:16	You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand up against the life of your neighbor: I am the Lord.	gossip
0	Leviticus 19:17-18	&ldquo;You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord.	anger
0	Leviticus 19:18	You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord.	community,law,love,neighbor
0	Leviticus 19:19	&ldquo;You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind. You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed, nor shall you wear a garment of cloth made of two kinds of material.	clothing,food
0	Leviticus 19:2	&ldquo;Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy.	holiness,reliability
0	Leviticus 19:20	&ldquo;If a man lies sexually with a woman who is a slave, assigned to another man and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, a distinction shall be made. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free;	freedom,slavery
0	Leviticus 19:20-22	&ldquo;If a man lies sexually with a woman who is a slave, assigned to another man and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, a distinction shall be made. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free; but he shall bring his compensation to the Lord, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, a ram for a guilt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before the Lord for his sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven for the sin that he has committed.	sacrifice,slavery
0	Leviticus 19:26	&ldquo;You shall not eat any flesh with the blood in it. You shall not interpret omens or tell fortunes.	blood
0	Leviticus 19:28	You shall not make any cuts on your body for the dead or tattoo yourselves: I am the Lord.	body,equipment
0	Leviticus 19:3	Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am the Lord your God.	children,sabbath
0	Leviticus 19:30	You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 19:33-34	&ldquo;When a stranger sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong. You shall treat the stranger who sojourns with you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.	slavery
0	Leviticus 19:34	You shall treat the stranger who sojourns with you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.	neighbor
0	Leviticus 19:35	&ldquo;You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity.	honesty
0	Leviticus 19:4	Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves any gods of cast metal: I am the Lord your God.	idols
0	Leviticus 19:9	&ldquo;When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest.	harvest
0	Leviticus 19:9-10	&ldquo;When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the Lord your God.	generosity,harvest,neighbor,poverty
0	Leviticus 19:9-18	&ldquo;When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the Lord your God. &ldquo;You shall not steal; you shall not deal falsely; you shall not lie to one another. You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God: I am the Lord. &ldquo;You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning. ...	community
0	Leviticus 2:13	You shall season all your grain offerings with salt. You shall not let the salt of the covenant with your God be missing from your grain offering; with all your offerings you shall offer salt.	covenant
0	Leviticus 2:4	&ldquo;When you bring a grain offering baked in the oven as an offering, it shall be unleavened loaves of fine flour mixed with oil or unleavened wafers smeared with oil.	bread
0	Leviticus 2:5	And if your offering is a grain offering baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil.	bread
0	Leviticus 20:10	&ldquo;If a man commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.	punishment
0	Leviticus 20:13	If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon them.	almighty,punishment,receiving
0	Leviticus 20:2	&ldquo;Say to the people of Israel, Any one of the people of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who gives any of his children to Molech shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.	punishment
0	Leviticus 20:26	You shall be holy to me, for I the Lord am holy and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be mine.	holiness
0	Leviticus 20:7	Consecrate yourselves, therefore, and be holy, for I am the Lord your God.	holiness
0	Leviticus 21:13-15	And he shall take a wife in her virginity. A widow, or a divorced woman, or a woman who has been defiled, or a prostitute, these he shall not marry. But he shall take as his wife a virgin of his own people, that he may not profane his offspring among his people, for I am the Lord who sanctifies him.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Leviticus 21:5	They shall not make bald patches on their heads, nor shave off the edges of their beards, nor make any cuts on their body.	body
0	Leviticus 21:7	They shall not marry a prostitute or a woman who has been defiled, neither shall they marry a woman divorced from her husband, for the priest is holy to his God.	marriage
0	Leviticus 21:9	And the daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by whoring, profanes her father; she shall be burned with fire.	punishment
0	Leviticus 22:13	But if a priest's daughter is widowed or divorced and has no child and returns to her father's house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father's food; yet no lay person shall eat of it.	widows
0	Leviticus 22:25	Neither shall you offer as the bread of your God any such animals gotten from a foreigner. Since there is a blemish in them, because of their mutilation, they will not be accepted for you.&rdquo;	bread
0	Leviticus 23:10	&ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest,	harvest,pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:10-11	&ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest, and he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord, so that you may be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.	harvest
0	Leviticus 23:11	And he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord, so that you may be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:13	And the grain offering with it shall be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, a food offering to the Lord with a pleasing aroma, and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, a fourth of a hin.	wine
0	Leviticus 23:1-3	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, These are the appointed feasts of the Lord that you shall proclaim as holy convocations; they are my appointed feasts. &ldquo;Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwelling places.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 23:14	And you shall eat neither bread nor grain parched or fresh until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:1-44	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, These are the appointed feasts of the Lord that you shall proclaim as holy convocations; they are my appointed feasts. &ldquo;Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwelling places. &ldquo;These are the appointed feasts of the Lord, the holy convocations, which you shall proclaim at the time appointed for them. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at twilight, is the Lord's Passover. ...	christmas,easter,poverty,sabbath
0	Leviticus 23:15	&ldquo;You shall count seven full weeks from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:15-16	&ldquo;You shall count seven full weeks from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering. You shall count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath. Then you shall present a grain offering of new grain to the Lord.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:15-17	&ldquo;You shall count seven full weeks from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering. You shall count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath. Then you shall present a grain offering of new grain to the Lord. You shall bring from your dwelling places two loaves of bread to be waved, made of two tenths of an ephah. They shall be of fine flour, and they shall be baked with leaven, as firstfruits to the Lord.	harvest
0	Leviticus 23:15-21	&ldquo;You shall count seven full weeks from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering. You shall count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath. Then you shall present a grain offering of new grain to the Lord. You shall bring from your dwelling places two loaves of bread to be waved, made of two tenths of an ephah. They shall be of fine flour, and they shall be baked with leaven, as firstfruits to the Lord. And you shall present with the bread seven lambs a year old without blemish, and one bull from the herd and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to the Lord, with their grain offering and their drink offerings, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the Lord. And you shall offer one male goat for a sin offering, and two male lambs a year old as a sacrifice of peace offerings. ...	pentecost
0	Leviticus 23:17	You shall bring from your dwelling places two loaves of bread to be waved, made of two tenths of an ephah. They shall be of fine flour, and they shall be baked with leaven, as firstfruits to the Lord.	bread
0	Leviticus 23:22	&ldquo;And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, nor shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the Lord your God.&rdquo;	harvest,work
0	Leviticus 23:26-32	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Now on the tenth day of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement. It shall be for you a time of holy convocation, and you shall afflict yourselves and present a food offering to the Lord. And you shall not do any work on that very day, for it is a Day of Atonement, to make atonement for you before the Lord your God. For whoever is not afflicted on that very day shall be cut off from his people. And whoever does any work on that very day, that person I will destroy from among his people. ...	fasting
0	Leviticus 23:3	&ldquo;Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwelling places.	rest,sabbath
0	Leviticus 23:32	It shall be to you a Sabbath of solemn rest, and you shall afflict yourselves. On the ninth day of the month beginning at evening, from evening to evening shall you keep your Sabbath.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Leviticus 23:40	And you shall take on the first day the fruit of splendid trees, branches of palm trees and boughs of leafy trees and willows of the brook, and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God seven days.	christmas
0	Leviticus 23:9-14	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest, and he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord, so that you may be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it. And on the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb a year old without blemish as a burnt offering to the Lord. And the grain offering with it shall be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, a food offering to the Lord with a pleasing aroma, and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, a fourth of a hin. ...	harvest
0	Leviticus 24:1-23	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Command the people of Israel to bring you pure oil from beaten olives for the lamp, that a light may be kept burning regularly. Outside the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall arrange it from evening to morning before the Lord regularly. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations. He shall arrange the lamps on the lampstand of pure gold before the Lord regularly. &ldquo;You shall take fine flour and bake twelve loaves from it; two tenths of an ephah shall be in each loaf. ...	acknowledging
0	Leviticus 24:16	Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.	punishment
0	Leviticus 24:17-18	&ldquo;Whoever takes a human life shall surely be put to death. Whoever takes an animal's life shall make it good, life for life.	life
0	Leviticus 24:8	Every Sabbath day Aaron shall arrange it before the Lord regularly; it is from the people of Israel as a covenant forever.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 25:11	That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you; in it you shall neither sow nor reap what grows of itself nor gather the grapes from the undressed vines.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 25:1-26:46	The Lord spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you, the land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord. For six years you shall sow your field, and for six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its fruits, but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to the Lord. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard. You shall not reap what grows of itself in your harvest, or gather the grapes of your undressed vine. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land. ...	poverty
0	Leviticus 25:14	And if you make a sale to your neighbor or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another.	honesty
0	Leviticus 25:1-55	The Lord spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you, the land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord. For six years you shall sow your field, and for six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its fruits, but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to the Lord. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard. You shall not reap what grows of itself in your harvest, or gather the grapes of your undressed vine. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land. ...	sabbath,slavery
0	Leviticus 25:18	&ldquo;Therefore you shall do my statutes and keep my rules and perform them, and then you will dwell in the land securely.	safety
0	Leviticus 25:35	&ldquo;If your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, you shall support him as though he were a stranger and a sojourner, and he shall live with you.	poverty
0	Leviticus 25:35-37	&ldquo;If your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, you shall support him as though he were a stranger and a sojourner, and he shall live with you. Take no interest from him or profit, but fear your God, that your brother may live beside you. You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit.	debt,generosity
0	Leviticus 25:35-53	&ldquo;If your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, you shall support him as though he were a stranger and a sojourner, and he shall live with you. Take no interest from him or profit, but fear your God, that your brother may live beside you. You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God. &ldquo;If your brother becomes poor beside you and sells himself to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave: ...	debt
0	Leviticus 25:38-46	I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God. &ldquo;If your brother becomes poor beside you and sells himself to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave: he shall be with you as a hired servant and as a sojourner. He shall serve with you until the year of the jubilee. Then he shall go out from you, he and his children with him, and go back to his own clan and return to the possession of his fathers. For they are my servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold as slaves. ...	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:39	&ldquo;If your brother becomes poor beside you and sells himself to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave:	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:4	But in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to the Lord. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard.	rest
0	Leviticus 25:43	You shall not rule over him ruthlessly but shall fear your God.	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:44	As for your male and female slaves whom you may have: you may buy male and female slaves from among the nations that are around you.	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:44-46	As for your male and female slaves whom you may have: you may buy male and female slaves from among the nations that are around you. You may also buy from among the strangers who sojourn with you and their clans that are with you, who have been born in your land, and they may be your property. You may bequeath them to your sons after you to inherit as a possession forever. You may make slaves of them, but over your brothers the people of Israel you shall not rule, one over another ruthlessly.	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:46	You may bequeath them to your sons after you to inherit as a possession forever. You may make slaves of them, but over your brothers the people of Israel you shall not rule, one over another ruthlessly.	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:5	You shall not reap what grows of itself in your harvest, or gather the grapes of your undressed vine. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.	harvest
0	Leviticus 25:53	He shall treat him as a servant hired year by year. He shall not rule ruthlessly over him in your sight.	slavery
0	Leviticus 25:8-9	&ldquo;You shall count seven weeks of years, seven times seven years, so that the time of the seven weeks of years shall give you forty-nine years. Then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement you shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land.	pentecost
0	Leviticus 26:1	&ldquo;You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God.	idols
0	Leviticus 26:1-13	&ldquo;You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord. &ldquo;If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them, then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing. And you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely. ...	blessing
0	Leviticus 26:1-46	&ldquo;You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord. &ldquo;If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them, then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing. And you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely. ...	equipment,faithfulness,pentecost,protection
0	Leviticus 26:19	And I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your heavens like iron and your earth like bronze.	pride
0	Leviticus 26:2	You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 26:26	When I break your supply of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in a single oven and shall dole out your bread again by weight, and you shall eat and not be satisfied.	bread
0	Leviticus 26:3-13	&ldquo;If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them, then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing. And you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely. I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. And I will remove harmful beasts from the land, and the sword shall not go through your land. You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. ...	obedience
0	Leviticus 26:34	&ldquo;Then the land shall enjoy its Sabbaths as long as it lies desolate, while you are in your enemies' land; then the land shall rest, and enjoy its Sabbaths.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 26:35	As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, the rest that it did not have on your Sabbaths when you were dwelling in it.	sabbath
0	Leviticus 26:5	Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing. And you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely.	harvest
0	Leviticus 26:6	I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. And I will remove harmful beasts from the land, and the sword shall not go through your land.	peace
0	Leviticus 27:1-34	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, If anyone makes a special vow to the Lord involving the valuation of persons, then the valuation of a male from twenty years old up to sixty years old shall be fifty shekels of silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. If the person is a female, the valuation shall be thirty shekels. If the person is from five years old up to twenty years old, the valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels. ...	equipment
0	Leviticus 27:30	&ldquo;Every tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is the Lord's; it is holy to the Lord.	equipment,generosity,giving,receiving,valuable
0	Leviticus 3:17	It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations, in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither fat nor blood.&rdquo;	blood
0	Leviticus 3:3	And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, as a food offering to the Lord, he shall offer the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails,	conversion
0	Leviticus 5:17	&ldquo;If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the Lord's commandments ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity.	punishment
0	Leviticus 6:1-7	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;If anyone sins and commits a breach of faith against the Lord by deceiving his neighbor in a matter of deposit or security, or through robbery, or if he has oppressed his neighbor or has found something lost and lied about it, swearing falsely&mdash;in any of all the things that people do and sin thereby&mdash; if he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression or the deposit that was committed to him or the lost thing that he found or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall restore it in full and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to him to whom it belongs on the day he realizes his guilt. ...	lying
0	Leviticus 7:13	With the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving he shall bring his offering with loaves of leavened bread.	bread
0	Leviticus 7:26	Moreover, you shall eat no blood whatever, whether of fowl or of animal, in any of your dwelling places.	blood
0	Leviticus 7:26-27	Moreover, you shall eat no blood whatever, whether of fowl or of animal, in any of your dwelling places. Whoever eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.&rdquo;	blood
0	Leviticus 7:27	Whoever eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.&rdquo;	blood
0	Leviticus 7:9	And every grain offering baked in the oven and all that is prepared on a pan or a griddle shall belong to the priest who offers it.	bread
0	Leviticus 8:1-36	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments and the anointing oil and the bull of the sin offering and the two rams and the basket of unleavened bread. And assemble all the congregation at the entrance of the tent of meeting.&rdquo; And Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and the congregation was assembled at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And Moses said to the congregation, &ldquo;This is the thing that the Lord has commanded to be done.&rdquo; ...	family
0	Leviticus 8:15	And he killed it, and Moses took the blood, and with his finger put it on the horns of the altar around it and purified the altar and poured out the blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it to make atonement for it.	reconciliation
0	Luke 1:11-20	And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. ...	angels
0	Luke 1:1-3	Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus,	reliability
0	Luke 1:1-3:38	Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. ...	christmas
0	Luke 1:14	And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,	christmas
0	Luke 1:15	For he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb.	wine
0	Luke 1:17	And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared.&rdquo;	prophecy
0	Luke 1:1-80	Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. ...	clothing,grace
0	Luke 1:19	And the angel answered him, &ldquo;I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news.	angels
0	Luke 1:2	Just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us,	overcoming
0	Luke 1:26	In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,	angels
0	Luke 1:26-38	In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, &ldquo;Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you!&rdquo; But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. ...	angels
0	Luke 1:30-31	And the angel said to her, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.	fear
0	Luke 1:30-33	And the angel said to her, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.&rdquo;	savior
0	Luke 1:32-33	He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Luke 1:33	And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.&rdquo;	kingdom,prophecy
0	Luke 1:35	And the angel answered her, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy&mdash;the Son of God.	almighty
0	Luke 1:37	For nothing will be impossible with God.&rdquo;	conversion,encouragement,evil,faith,god,goodness,miracles,neighbor,overcoming,prayer,punishment,rebirth,rest,the-word,work,worrying
0	Luke 1:39-45	In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah, and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she exclaimed with a loud cry, &ldquo;Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? ...	jesus
0	Luke 1:46-47	And Mary said, &ldquo;My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,	christmas
0	Luke 1:46-55	And Mary said, &ldquo;My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed; for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. ...	jesus
0	Luke 1:47	And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,	joy,mediator,savior
0	Luke 1:47-48	And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed;	evangelism
0	Luke 1:50	And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.	mercy
0	Luke 1:52	He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate;	humility
0	Luke 1:53	He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty.	poverty
0	Luke 1:6	And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord.	obedience
0	Luke 1:67-80	And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, &ldquo;Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us; ...	salvation
0	Luke 1:70	As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old,	prophecy
0	Luke 1:72	To show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant,	covenant
0	Luke 1:75	In holiness and righteousness before him all our days.	holiness
0	Luke 1:78	Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high	mercy
0	Luke 1:79	To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.&rdquo;	peace
0	Luke 10:10-12	But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say, &lsquo;Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.&rsquo; I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town.	acknowledging
0	Luke 10:10-14	But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say, &lsquo;Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.&rsquo; I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. &ldquo;Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.	judgment
0	Luke 10:1-42	After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go. And he said to them, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road. Whatever house you enter, first say, &lsquo;Peace be to this house!&rsquo; ...	spirit
0	Luke 10:15	And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades.	hell
0	Luke 10:16	&ldquo;The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me.&rdquo;	listening,sadness
0	Luke 10:17	The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, &ldquo;Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!&rdquo;	joy
0	Luke 10:17-20	The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, &ldquo;Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Luke 10:18	And he said to them, &ldquo;I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.	devil
0	Luke 10:18-20	And he said to them, &ldquo;I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.&rdquo;	world
0	Luke 10:19	Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.	devil,evil,fear,protection,safety
0	Luke 10:19-20	Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.&rdquo;	christmas
0	Luke 10:2	And he said to them, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.	harvest
0	Luke 10:20	Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Luke 10:25	And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, &ldquo;Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?&rdquo;	eternal-life
0	Luke 10:25-37	And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, &ldquo;Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?&rdquo; He said to him, &ldquo;What is written in the Law? How do you read it?&rdquo; And he answered, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;You have answered correctly; do this, and you will live.&rdquo; But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, &ldquo;And who is my neighbor?&rdquo; ...	acknowledging,compassion,nearness,neighbor
0	Luke 10:27	And he answered, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	christmas,generosity,neighbor
0	Luke 10:29	But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, &ldquo;And who is my neighbor?&rdquo;	neighbor
0	Luke 10:30-35	Jesus replied, &ldquo;A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. ...	compassion
0	Luke 10:30-37	Jesus replied, &ldquo;A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. ...	compassion,faithfulness,generosity,neighbor
0	Luke 10:33	But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion.	compassion
0	Luke 10:34	He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him.	wine
0	Luke 10:36	Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?&rdquo;	neighbor
0	Luke 10:37	He said, &ldquo;The one who showed him mercy.&rdquo; And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;You go, and do likewise.&rdquo;	serving
0	Luke 10:38-42	Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, &ldquo;Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me.&rdquo; But the Lord answered her, &ldquo;Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her.&rdquo;	christmas,worship
0	Luke 10:41-42	But the Lord answered her, &ldquo;Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her.&rdquo;	worrying
0	Luke 10:7	And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house.	work
0	Luke 10:9	Heal the sick in it and say to them, &lsquo;The kingdom of God has come near to you.&rsquo;	healing,kingdom,sickness
0	Luke 11:1	Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, &ldquo;Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples.&rdquo;	prayer
0	Luke 11:11-13	What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent; or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!&rdquo;	father
0	Luke 11:12	Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?	food
0	Luke 11:13	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!&rdquo;	family,generosity,giving,holy-spirit,promises,spirit
0	Luke 11:14	Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled.	devil
0	Luke 11:1-4	Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, &ldquo;Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples.&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;When you pray, say: &ldquo;Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation.&rdquo;	nearness,sadness
0	Luke 11:18	And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.	devil
0	Luke 11:28	But he said, &ldquo;Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!&rdquo;	listening,obedience,the-word
0	Luke 11:29	When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, &ldquo;This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.	miracles
0	Luke 11:3	Give us each day our daily bread,	the-word
0	Luke 11:34	Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light, but when it is bad, your body is full of darkness.	light
0	Luke 11:39	And the Lord said to him, &ldquo;Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness.	greed
0	Luke 11:4	And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation.&rdquo;	temptation
0	Luke 11:42	&ldquo;But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.	giving
0	Luke 11:42-12:34	&ldquo;But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others. Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it.&rdquo; One of the lawyers answered him, &ldquo;Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also.&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;Woe to you lawyers also! For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. ...	greed
0	Luke 11:7	And he will answer from within, &lsquo;Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything&rsquo;?	seeking
0	Luke 11:9	And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.	prayer
0	Luke 11:9-10	And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.	seeking
0	Luke 11:9-13	And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent; or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!&rdquo;	prayer
0	Luke 12:1-14:35	In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, &ldquo;Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops. &ldquo;I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him! ...	poverty
0	Luke 12:12	For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.&rdquo;	comforter
0	Luke 12:13-15	Someone in the crowd said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.&rdquo; But he said to him, &ldquo;Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.&rdquo;	contentment
0	Luke 12:15	And he said to them, &ldquo;Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.&rdquo;	contentment,debt,generosity,greed,materialism,money
0	Luke 12:15-34	And he said to them, &ldquo;Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.&rdquo; And he told them a parable, saying, &ldquo;The land of a rich man produced plentifully, and he thought to himself, &lsquo;What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry.&rsquo; ...	christmas
0	Luke 12:1-59	In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, &ldquo;Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops. &ldquo;I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him! ...	fear,greed
0	Luke 12:16-21	And he told them a parable, saying, &ldquo;The land of a rich man produced plentifully, and he thought to himself, &lsquo;What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?&rsquo; And he said, &lsquo;I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry.&rsquo; But God said to him, &lsquo;Fool! This night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be?&rsquo; ...	planning
0	Luke 12:22-23	And he said to his disciples, &ldquo;Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.	clothing
0	Luke 12:22-26	And he said to his disciples, &ldquo;Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds! And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest?	fear
0	Luke 12:24	Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!	world
0	Luke 12:3	Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops.	light,listening
0	Luke 12:31	Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you.	seeking
0	Luke 12:32	&ldquo;Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.	fear,heaven,kingdom
0	Luke 12:32-34	&ldquo;Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.	gratitude,poverty
0	Luke 12:33	Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.	equipment,generosity,giving,neighbor,serving
0	Luke 12:33-34	Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.	clothing,food,generosity,giving,heart,heaven,materialism,money,reward,serving
0	Luke 12:34	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.	idols
0	Luke 12:35-38	&ldquo;Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning, and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them. If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!	temptation
0	Luke 12:38	If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!	obedience
0	Luke 12:4	&ldquo;I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do.	courage
0	Luke 12:42-44	And the Lord said, &ldquo;Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.	faithfulness
0	Luke 12:43-48	Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. But if that servant says to himself, &lsquo;My master is delayed in coming,&rsquo; and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk, the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful. And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating. ...	slavery
0	Luke 12:4-5	&ldquo;I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him!	fear
0	Luke 12:47	And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating.	awe
0	Luke 12:47-48	And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating. But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.	punishment,slavery
0	Luke 12:48	But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.	awe,judgment,mediator,punishment
0	Luke 12:48-59	But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more. &ldquo;I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled! I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished! Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three. ...	materialism
0	Luke 12:5	But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him!	hell
0	Luke 12:59	I tell you, you will never get out until you have paid the very last penny.&rdquo;	debt
0	Luke 12:6-7	Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God. Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many sparrows.	encouragement
0	Luke 12:8	&ldquo;And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God,	confession,evangelism
0	Luke 12:8-34	&ldquo;And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.&rdquo; ...	worrying
0	Luke 12:8-51	&ldquo;And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	Luke 13:10	Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.	sabbath
0	Luke 13:10-17	Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And there was a woman who had had a disabling spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not fully straighten herself. When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, &ldquo;Woman, you are freed from your disability.&rdquo; And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God. But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people, &ldquo;There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.&rdquo; ...	miracles,reconciliation,sabbath
0	Luke 13:1-17	There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And he answered them, &ldquo;Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered in this way? No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them: do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.&rdquo; ...	selfishness
0	Luke 13:12	When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, &ldquo;Woman, you are freed from your disability.&rdquo;	healing
0	Luke 13:13	And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God.	healing
0	Luke 13:16	And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?&rdquo;	devil
0	Luke 13:25	When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, &lsquo;Lord, open to us,&rsquo; then he will answer you, &lsquo;I do not know where you come from.&rsquo;	second-coming
0	Luke 13:3	No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.	conversion,evangelism,punishment,repentance
0	Luke 13:33	Nevertheless, I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.&rsquo;	nearness
0	Luke 13:5	No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.&rdquo;	repentance
0	Luke 14:11	For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.&rdquo;	humility,pride
0	Luke 14:12-14	He said also to the man who had invited him, &ldquo;When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just.&rdquo;	equipment,giving,serving
0	Luke 14:13-14	But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just.&rdquo;	community
0	Luke 14:14	And you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just.&rdquo;	resurrection
0	Luke 14:1-6	One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy. And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, &ldquo;Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?&rdquo; But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him and sent him away. And he said to them, &ldquo;Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out?&rdquo; ...	miracles,sabbath
0	Luke 14:20-35	And another said, &lsquo;I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.&rsquo; So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, &lsquo;Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame.&rsquo; And the servant said, &lsquo;Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.&rsquo; And the master said to the servant, &lsquo;Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	family
0	Luke 14:23-35	And the master said to the servant, &lsquo;Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.&rsquo;&rdquo; Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, &ldquo;If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. ...	materialism
0	Luke 14:25-33	Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, &ldquo;If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, ...	fruitfulness
0	Luke 14:26	&ldquo;If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.	selfishness
0	Luke 14:27	Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.	suffering
0	Luke 14:28	For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?	debt,money,planning,work
0	Luke 14:28-30	For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, &lsquo;This man began to build and was not able to finish.&rsquo;	money,planning
0	Luke 15:10	Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.&rdquo;	angels,conversion,joy,repentance
0	Luke 15:11-32	And he said, &ldquo;There was a man who had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, &lsquo;Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me.&rsquo; And he divided his property between them. Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. ...	father,reconciliation
0	Luke 15:1-32	Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, &ldquo;This man receives sinners and eats with them.&rdquo; So he told them this parable: &ldquo;What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it? And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. ...	addiction,reconciliation
0	Luke 15:20	And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.	compassion
0	Luke 15:23	And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate.	food
0	Luke 15:7	Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance.	conversion,joy,repentance,transformation
0	Luke 15:8	&ldquo;Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it?	seeking
0	Luke 16:10	&ldquo;One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much.	debt,equipment,honesty,lying,reliability,trust
0	Luke 16:10-12	&ldquo;One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?	faithfulness,honesty
0	Luke 16:11	If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches?	debt,money,work
0	Luke 16:13	No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.&rdquo;	debt,slavery
0	Luke 16:1-31	He also said to the disciples, &ldquo;There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his possessions. And he called him and said to him, &lsquo;What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be manager.&rsquo; And the manager said to himself, &lsquo;What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg. I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management, people may receive me into their houses.&rsquo; So, summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, &lsquo;How much do you owe my master?&rsquo; ...	materialism
0	Luke 16:14	The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things, and they ridiculed him.	greed,money
0	Luke 16:14-15	The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things, and they ridiculed him. And he said to them, &ldquo;You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.	materialism
0	Luke 16:15	And he said to them, &ldquo;You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.	heart
0	Luke 16:16	&ldquo;The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into it.	law
0	Luke 16:17	But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to become void.	fruitfulness,law
0	Luke 16:18	&ldquo;Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.	marriage
0	Luke 16:19	&ldquo;There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day.	clothing
0	Luke 16:19-30	&ldquo;There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. ...	heaven
0	Luke 16:19-31	&ldquo;There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. ...	generosity,hell,judgment,materialism,overcoming,rebirth,receiving
0	Luke 16:22	The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried,	angels
0	Luke 16:23	And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side.	hell
0	Luke 16:23-24	And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. And he called out, &lsquo;Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.&rsquo;	suffering
0	Luke 16:24	And he called out, &lsquo;Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.&rsquo;	hell
0	Luke 16:8	The master commended the dishonest manager for his shrewdness. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of light.	light
0	Luke 16:9-17	And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings. &ldquo;One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	Luke 16:9-18:30	And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings. &ldquo;One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.&rdquo; ...	greed
0	Luke 17:11-19	On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers, who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, &ldquo;Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.&rdquo; When he saw them he said to them, &ldquo;Go and show yourselves to the priests.&rdquo; And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; ...	gratitude,miracles
0	Luke 17:2	It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he should cause one of these little ones to sin.	children
0	Luke 17:20-21	Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, &ldquo;The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed, nor will they say, &lsquo;Look, here it is!&rsquo; or &lsquo;There!&rsquo; for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Luke 17:20-37	Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, &ldquo;The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed, nor will they say, &lsquo;Look, here it is!&rsquo; or &lsquo;There!&rsquo; for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.&rdquo; And he said to the disciples, &ldquo;The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. And they will say to you, &lsquo;Look, there!&rsquo; or &lsquo;Look, here!&rsquo; Do not go out or follow them. For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. ...	second-coming
0	Luke 17:21	Nor will they say, &lsquo;Look, here it is!&rsquo; or &lsquo;There!&rsquo; for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Luke 17:28	Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot&mdash;they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building,	rebirth
0	Luke 17:28-30	Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot&mdash;they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building, but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all&mdash; so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.	second-coming
0	Luke 17:3	Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him,	forgiveness,reconciliation,repentance
0	Luke 17:30	So will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.	rebirth,second-coming
0	Luke 17:33	Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it.	selfishness
0	Luke 17:3-4	Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him, and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, &lsquo;I repent,&rsquo; you must forgive him.&rdquo;	forgiveness
0	Luke 17:4	And if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, &lsquo;I repent,&rsquo; you must forgive him.&rdquo;	reconciliation
0	Luke 17:5	The apostles said to the Lord, &ldquo;Increase our faith!&rdquo;	faith
0	Luke 17:6	And the Lord said, &ldquo;If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, &lsquo;Be uprooted and planted in the sea,&rsquo; and it would obey you.	faith
0	Luke 18:1	And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart.	prayer,weakness
0	Luke 18:10-14	&ldquo;Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: &lsquo;God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.&rsquo; But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, &lsquo;God, be merciful to me, a sinner!&rsquo; I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.&rdquo;	prayer
0	Luke 18:12	I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.&rsquo;	fasting
0	Luke 18:1-22	And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. He said, &ldquo;In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, &lsquo;Give me justice against my adversary.&rsquo; For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, &lsquo;Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	sacrifice
0	Luke 18:14	I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.&rdquo;	humility
0	Luke 18:15-17	Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him, saying, &ldquo;Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.&rdquo;	children
0	Luke 18:16	But Jesus called them to him, saying, &ldquo;Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.	children
0	Luke 18:16-18	But Jesus called them to him, saying, &ldquo;Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.&rdquo; And a ruler asked him, &ldquo;Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?&rdquo;	dependence
0	Luke 18:18	And a ruler asked him, &ldquo;Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?&rdquo;	eternal-life
0	Luke 18:1-8	And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. He said, &ldquo;In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, &lsquo;Give me justice against my adversary.&rsquo; For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, &lsquo;Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	prayer
0	Luke 18:18-19	And a ruler asked him, &ldquo;Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?&rdquo; And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.	nearness
0	Luke 18:19	And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.	goodness
0	Luke 18:27	But he said, &ldquo;What is impossible with men is possible with God.&rdquo;	faith,miracles
0	Luke 18:30	Who will not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life.&rdquo;	eternal-life
0	Luke 18:8	I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?&rdquo;	rebirth,second-coming
0	Luke 18:9-14	He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt: &ldquo;Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: &lsquo;God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.&rsquo; But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, &lsquo;God, be merciful to me, a sinner!&rsquo; ...	giving,pride,understanding
0	Luke 19:10	For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.&rdquo;	evangelism,jesus,seeking
0	Luke 19:1-10	He entered Jericho and was passing through. And there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, &ldquo;Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today.&rdquo; ...	mediator
0	Luke 19:11-21	As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said therefore, &ldquo;A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, &lsquo;Engage in business until I come.&rsquo; But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, &lsquo;We do not want this man to reign over us.&rsquo; When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. ...	nearness
0	Luke 19:11-27	As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said therefore, &ldquo;A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, &lsquo;Engage in business until I come.&rsquo; But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, &lsquo;We do not want this man to reign over us.&rsquo; When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. ...	reward
0	Luke 19:12	He said therefore, &ldquo;A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return.	ascension
0	Luke 19:12-25	He said therefore, &ldquo;A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, &lsquo;Engage in business until I come.&rsquo; But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, &lsquo;We do not want this man to reign over us.&rsquo; When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. The first came before him, saying, &lsquo;Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.&rsquo; ...	faithfulness
0	Luke 19:12-27	He said therefore, &ldquo;A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, &lsquo;Engage in business until I come.&rsquo; But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, &lsquo;We do not want this man to reign over us.&rsquo; When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. The first came before him, saying, &lsquo;Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.&rsquo; ...	faithfulness
0	Luke 19:17-19	And he said to him, &lsquo;Well done, good servant! Because you have been faithful in a very little, you shall have authority over ten cities.&rsquo; And the second came, saying, &lsquo;Lord, your mina has made five minas.&rsquo; And he said to him, &lsquo;And you are to be over five cities.&rsquo;	reward
0	Luke 19:26-27	&lsquo;I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me.&rsquo;&rdquo;	gratitude
0	Luke 19:37-40	As he was drawing near&mdash;already on the way down the Mount of Olives&mdash;the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, &ldquo;Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!&rdquo; And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, rebuke your disciples.&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Luke 19:41-42	And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, &ldquo;Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes.	compassion
0	Luke 2:10	And the angel said to them, &ldquo;Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.	jesus,joy
0	Luke 2:11	For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.	jesus,redeemer,savior
0	Luke 2:13	And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,	angels
0	Luke 2:14	&ldquo;Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!&rdquo;	peace
0	Luke 2:1-52	In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria. And all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. ...	christmas
0	Luke 2:15-20	When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, &ldquo;Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.&rdquo; And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. ...	jesus
0	Luke 2:22	And when the time came for their purification according to the Law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord	purification
0	Luke 2:25	Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.	holy-spirit,pentecost
0	Luke 2:29	&ldquo;Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word;	death
0	Luke 2:32	A light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel.&rdquo;	light,prophecy
0	Luke 2:36	And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin,	widows
0	Luke 2:37	And then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple, worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day.	fasting,widows
0	Luke 2:40	And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him.	grace
0	Luke 2:49-52	And he said to them, &ldquo;Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?&rdquo; And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.	dependence
0	Luke 2:51	And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart.	obedience
0	Luke 2:52	And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.	awe,children,learning,understanding
0	Luke 20:1-47	One day, as Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up and said to him, &ldquo;Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this authority.&rdquo; He answered them, &ldquo;I also will ask you a question. Now tell me, was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?&rdquo; And they discussed it with one another, saying, &ldquo;If we say, &lsquo;From heaven,&rsquo; he will say, &lsquo;Why did you not believe him?&rsquo; ...	selfishness
0	Luke 20:25	He said to them, &ldquo;Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.&rdquo;	law
0	Luke 20:36	For they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.	angels,death
0	Luke 20:42	For David himself says in the Book of Psalms, &ldquo;&lsquo;The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,	prophecy
0	Luke 20:45-47	And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples, &ldquo;Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Luke 20:46-21:3	&ldquo;Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.&rdquo; Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box, and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins. And he said, &ldquo;Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.	selfishness
0	Luke 20:47	Who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.&rdquo;	widows
0	Luke 21:1	Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box,	second-coming
0	Luke 21:11	There will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences. And there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.	rebirth
0	Luke 21:12	But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake.	persecution
0	Luke 21:12-13	But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake. This will be your opportunity to bear witness.	persecution
0	Luke 21:13-15	This will be your opportunity to bear witness. Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer, for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.	persecution
0	Luke 21:14	Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer,	worrying
0	Luke 21:1-4	Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box, and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins. And he said, &ldquo;Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.&rdquo;	equipment,generosity,giving,mediator,money
0	Luke 21:15	For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.	wisdom
0	Luke 21:19	By your endurance you will gain your lives.	patience,persecution
0	Luke 21:26	People fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken.	nearness
0	Luke 21:28	Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.&rdquo;	nearness
0	Luke 21:31	So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.	rebirth
0	Luke 21:34	&ldquo;But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap.	health,wine
0	Luke 21:34-36	&ldquo;But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Luke 21:36	But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.&rdquo;	conversion,prayer,world
0	Luke 21:5-19	And while some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he said, &ldquo;As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.&rdquo; And they asked him, &ldquo;Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?&rdquo; And he said, &ldquo;See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, &lsquo;I am he!&rsquo; and, &lsquo;The time is at hand!&rsquo; Do not go after them. And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once.&rdquo; ...	understanding
0	Luke 21:8-9	And he said, &ldquo;See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, &lsquo;I am he!&rsquo; and, &lsquo;The time is at hand!&rsquo; Do not go after them. And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once.&rdquo;	selfishness
0	Luke 22:15	And he said to them, &ldquo;I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.	sacrifice
0	Luke 22:1-71	Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread drew near, which is called the Passover. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put him to death, for they feared the people. Then Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve. He went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them. And they were glad, and agreed to give him money. ...	addiction
0	Luke 22:19	And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, &ldquo;This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&rdquo;	bread
0	Luke 22:20	And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, &ldquo;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.	blood,covenant,wine
0	Luke 22:25-30	And he said to them, &ldquo;The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors. But not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves. For who is the greater, one who reclines at table or one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as the one who serves. &ldquo;You are those who have stayed with me in my trials, and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom, ...	kingdom
0	Luke 22:27	For who is the greater, one who reclines at table or one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as the one who serves.	serving
0	Luke 22:3	Then Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.	temptation
0	Luke 22:31	&ldquo;Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat,	temptation
0	Luke 22:31-32	&ldquo;Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.&rdquo;	devil,prayer
0	Luke 22:32	But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.&rdquo;	temptation
0	Luke 22:37	For I tell you that this Scripture must be fulfilled in me: &lsquo;And he was numbered with the transgressors.&rsquo; For what is written about me has its fulfillment.&rdquo;	prophecy
0	Luke 22:40	And when he came to the place, he said to them, &ldquo;Pray that you may not enter into temptation.&rdquo;	overcoming,temptation
0	Luke 22:41	And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed,	nearness
0	Luke 22:42	Saying, &ldquo;Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done.&rdquo;	blameless,sacrifice
0	Luke 22:46	And he said to them, &ldquo;Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.&rdquo;	temptation
0	Luke 22:69	But from now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God.&rdquo;	nearness
0	Luke 23:1-56	Then the whole company of them arose and brought him before Pilate. And they began to accuse him, saying, &ldquo;We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ, a king.&rdquo; And Pilate asked him, &ldquo;Are you the King of the Jews?&rdquo; And he answered him, &ldquo;You have said so.&rdquo; Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, &ldquo;I find no guilt in this man.&rdquo; But they were urgent, saying, &ldquo;He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even to this place.&rdquo; ...	easter
0	Luke 23:33	And when they came to the place that is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right and one on his left.	crucifixion,nearness
0	Luke 23:33-34	And when they came to the place that is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right and one on his left. And Jesus said, &ldquo;Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.&rdquo; And they cast lots to divide his garments.	forgiveness
0	Luke 23:34	And Jesus said, &ldquo;Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.&rdquo; And they cast lots to divide his garments.	forgiveness,messiah,reconciliation
0	Luke 23:35	And the people stood by, watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, &ldquo;He saved others; let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One!&rdquo;	messiah
0	Luke 23:39	One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, &ldquo;Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!&rdquo;	nearness
0	Luke 23:43	And he said to him, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise.&rdquo;	ascension,death,heaven,hell,rebirth,valuable
0	Luke 23:46	Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, &ldquo;Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!&rdquo; And having said this he breathed his last.	almighty,easter,mediator,messiah,nearness,prophecy,sacrifice
0	Luke 23:54	It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning.	sabbath
0	Luke 23:56	Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.	sabbath
0	Luke 24:1-12	But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared. And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, &ldquo;Why do you seek the living among the dead? ...	easter,resurrection
0	Luke 24:1-53	But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared. And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, &ldquo;Why do you seek the living among the dead? ...	easter,resurrection
0	Luke 24:17	And he said to them, &ldquo;What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk?&rdquo; And they stood still, looking sad.	crucifixion
0	Luke 24:18-19	Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, &ldquo;Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;What things?&rdquo; And they said to him, &ldquo;Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,	nearness
0	Luke 24:25	And he said to them, &ldquo;O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!	rebirth
0	Luke 24:30	When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them.	bread
0	Luke 24:34	Saying, &ldquo;The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!&rdquo;	easter
0	Luke 24:36-39	As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, &ldquo;Peace to you!&rdquo; But they were startled and frightened and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, &ldquo;Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.&rdquo;	easter
0	Luke 24:44	Then he said to them, &ldquo;These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.&rdquo;	reliability
0	Luke 24:45	Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,	understanding
0	Luke 24:46-47	And said to them, &ldquo;Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.	easter,repentance,resurrection
0	Luke 24:47	And that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.	evangelism,redeemer,repentance
0	Luke 24:50-51	Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them. While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.	ascension
0	Luke 24:52	And they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,	joy
0	Luke 24:5-6	And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, &ldquo;Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,	resurrection
0	Luke 24:6-7	He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee, that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise.&rdquo;	easter,resurrection
0	Luke 3:10-11	And the crowds asked him, &ldquo;What then shall we do?&rdquo; And he answered them, &ldquo;Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise.&rdquo;	generosity,serving
0	Luke 3:11	And he answered them, &ldquo;Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise.&rdquo;	giving
0	Luke 3:14	Soldiers also asked him, &ldquo;And we, what shall we do?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages.&rdquo;	contentment,money
0	Luke 3:16	John answered them all, saying, &ldquo;I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.	baptism,pentecost
0	Luke 3:17	His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.&rdquo;	hell
0	Luke 3:21-22	Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, &ldquo;You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Luke 3:23	Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,	nearness
0	Luke 3:23-38	Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda, the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, ...	valuable
0	Luke 3:3	And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.	baptism,repentance
0	Luke 3:33	The son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,	messiah
0	Luke 3:8	Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, &lsquo;We have Abraham as our father.&rsquo; For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.	repentance
0	Luke 3:8-23	Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, &lsquo;We have Abraham as our father.&rsquo; For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.&rdquo; And the crowds asked him, &ldquo;What then shall we do?&rdquo; And he answered them, &ldquo;Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise.&rdquo; Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, what shall we do?&rdquo; ...	family
0	Luke 3:8-9	Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, &lsquo;We have Abraham as our father.&rsquo; For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.&rdquo;	repentance
0	Luke 4:1	And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness	holy-spirit
0	Luke 4:10	For it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;He will command his angels concerning you, to guard you,&rsquo;	angels
0	Luke 4:1-13	And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry. The devil said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.&rdquo; And Jesus answered him, &ldquo;It is written, &lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone.&rsquo;&rdquo; And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, ...	self-control,temptation
0	Luke 4:13	And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time.	temptation
0	Luke 4:1-44	And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry. The devil said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.&rdquo; And Jesus answered him, &ldquo;It is written, &lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone.&rsquo;&rdquo; And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, ...	mercy,self-control
0	Luke 4:16	And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read.	law,sabbath
0	Luke 4:16-21	And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, &ldquo;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.&rdquo; And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. ...	poverty
0	Luke 4:17-21	And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, &ldquo;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.&rdquo; And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, &ldquo;Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.&rdquo;	savior
0	Luke 4:18	&ldquo;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed,	freedom,healing,prophecy,sadness,sickness,slavery
0	Luke 4:18-19	&ldquo;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.&rdquo;	evangelism,freedom
0	Luke 4:2	For forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry.	devil,fasting
0	Luke 4:3	The devil said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.&rdquo;	devil
0	Luke 4:31	And he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the Sabbath,	sabbath
0	Luke 4:33-36	And in the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice, &ldquo;Ha! What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are&mdash;the Holy One of God.&rdquo; But Jesus rebuked him, saying, &ldquo;Be silent and come out of him!&rdquo; And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm. And they were all amazed and said to one another, &ldquo;What is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!&rdquo;	miracles
0	Luke 4:40	Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them.	sickness
0	Luke 4:43	But he said to them, &ldquo;I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well; for I was sent for this purpose.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Luke 4:5	And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time,	devil
0	Luke 4:6	And said to him, &ldquo;To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will.	devil
0	Luke 4:8	And Jesus answered him, &ldquo;It is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.&rsquo;&rdquo;	worship
0	Luke 5:1	On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,	listening
0	Luke 5:11-28	And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged him, &ldquo;Lord, if you will, you can make me clean.&rdquo; And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, &ldquo;I will; be clean.&rdquo; And immediately the leprosy left him. And he charged him to tell no one, but &ldquo;go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to them.&rdquo; But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities. ...	materialism
0	Luke 5:16	But he would withdraw to desolate places and pray.	almighty,sadness
0	Luke 5:17	On one of those days, as he was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with him to heal.	healing
0	Luke 5:20-39	And when he saw their faith, he said, &ldquo;Man, your sins are forgiven you.&rdquo; And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, &ldquo;Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?&rdquo; When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, &ldquo;Why do you question in your hearts? Which is easier, to say, &lsquo;Your sins are forgiven you,&rsquo; or to say, &lsquo;Rise and walk&rsquo;? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins&rdquo;&mdash;he said to the man who was paralyzed&mdash;&ldquo;I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home.&rdquo; ...	christmas
0	Luke 5:31-32	And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.&rdquo;	health,repentance
0	Luke 5:32	I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.&rdquo;	repentance
0	Luke 5:33	And they said to him, &ldquo;The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Luke 5:33-35	And they said to him, &ldquo;The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink.&rdquo; And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Luke 5:34-35	And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Luke 5:35	The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Luke 5:35-6:48	The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.&rdquo; He also told them a parable: &ldquo;No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins. And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, &lsquo;The old is good.&rsquo;&rdquo; ...	worrying
0	Luke 5:37	And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.	wine
0	Luke 5:38	But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.	wine
0	Luke 5:39	And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, &lsquo;The old is good.&rsquo;&rdquo;	wine
0	Luke 6:12	In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God.	almighty,prayer,sadness
0	Luke 6:1-20	On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, &ldquo;Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.&rdquo; ...	sabbath
0	Luke 6:1-49	On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, &ldquo;Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.&rdquo; ...	judgment
0	Luke 6:1-5	On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, &ldquo;Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.&rdquo;	acknowledging
0	Luke 6:19	And all the crowd sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.	healing
0	Luke 6:20	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: &ldquo;Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.	ascension,contentment
0	Luke 6:20-21	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: &ldquo;Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. &ldquo;Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. &ldquo;Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.	poverty
0	Luke 6:20-49	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: &ldquo;Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. &ldquo;Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. &ldquo;Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. &ldquo;Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man! Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets. &ldquo;But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. ...	addiction
0	Luke 6:22	&ldquo;Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man!	persecution
0	Luke 6:23	Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.	persecution,reward
0	Luke 6:27	&ldquo;But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,	forgiveness,neighbor,sadness
0	Luke 6:27-28	&ldquo;But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.	blessing,prayer
0	Luke 6:27-38	&ldquo;But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. ...	christmas
0	Luke 6:27-42	&ldquo;But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. ...	reconciliation
0	Luke 6:30	Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back.	debt,generosity,giving
0	Luke 6:31	And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.	anger,friendship,gentleness,gossip,greed,honesty,love,neighbor
0	Luke 6:32-34	&ldquo;If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount.	selfishness
0	Luke 6:34-35	And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount. But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil.	debt
0	Luke 6:35	But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil.	goodness,love,reward,serving
0	Luke 6:36	Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.	compassion,goodness,mercy
0	Luke 6:36-37	Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. &ldquo;Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven;	mercy
0	Luke 6:37	&ldquo;Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven;	forgiveness,judgment,mercy
0	Luke 6:37-38	&ldquo;Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven; give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.&rdquo;	generosity
0	Luke 6:38	Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.&rdquo;	community,debt,generosity,giving,money,neighbor,reward,serving
0	Luke 6:45	The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.	blessing,heart,speaking,thoughts
0	Luke 6:46	&ldquo;Why do you call me &lsquo;Lord, Lord,&rsquo; and not do what I tell you?	obedience
0	Luke 6:46-48	&ldquo;Why do you call me &lsquo;Lord, Lord,&rsquo; and not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.	obedience
0	Luke 6:6	On another Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was withered.	sabbath
0	Luke 7:1-10	After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum. Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him. When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, &ldquo;He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue.&rdquo; ...	miracles,slavery
0	Luke 7:11-15	Soon afterward he went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him. As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, &ldquo;Do not weep.&rdquo; Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, &ldquo;Young man, I say to you, arise.&rdquo; And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.	widows
0	Luke 7:13	And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, &ldquo;Do not weep.&rdquo;	compassion
0	Luke 7:13-15	And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, &ldquo;Do not weep.&rdquo; Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, &ldquo;Young man, I say to you, arise.&rdquo; And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.	compassion
0	Luke 7:1-50	After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum. Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him. When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, &ldquo;He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue.&rdquo; ...	compassion
0	Luke 7:25-10:42	What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in kings' courts. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.&rsquo; I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.&rdquo; (When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John, ...	poverty
0	Luke 7:27	This is he of whom it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Luke 7:29	(When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John,	baptism
0	Luke 7:34	The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, &lsquo;Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!&rsquo;	wine
0	Luke 7:41-50	&ldquo;A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more?&rdquo; Simon answered, &ldquo;The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt.&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;You have judged rightly.&rdquo; Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, &ldquo;Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet. ...	debt
0	Luke 7:44-50	Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, &ldquo;Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven&mdash;for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.&rdquo; And he said to her, &ldquo;Your sins are forgiven.&rdquo; ...	forgiveness
0	Luke 7:47	Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven&mdash;for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.&rdquo;	addiction
0	Luke 7:50	And he said to the woman, &ldquo;Your faith has saved you; go in peace.&rdquo;	faith
0	Luke 8:11	Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.	harvest
0	Luke 8:13	And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root; they believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away.	temptation
0	Luke 8:14	And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.	temptation
0	Luke 8:15	As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience.	heart,honesty,lying,obedience,patience
0	Luke 8:16	&ldquo;No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.	holiness,light
0	Luke 8:17	For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light.	lying
0	Luke 8:21	But he answered them, &ldquo;My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it.&rdquo;	listening
0	Luke 8:43-48	And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and though she had spent all her living on physicians, she could not be healed by anyone. She came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased. And Jesus said, &ldquo;Who was it that touched me?&rdquo; When all denied it, Peter said, &ldquo;Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you!&rdquo; But Jesus said, &ldquo;Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me.&rdquo; And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed. ...	miracles
0	Luke 8:48	And he said to her, &ldquo;Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace.&rdquo;	healing,health
0	Luke 8:50	But Jesus on hearing this answered him, &ldquo;Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well.&rdquo;	healing
0	Luke 9:1	And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases,	sickness
0	Luke 9:11	When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them and spoke to them of the kingdom of God and cured those who had need of healing.	healing,health
0	Luke 9:1-2	And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal.	calling
0	Luke 9:16-17	And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd. And they all ate and were satisfied. And what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken pieces.	food
0	Luke 9:23	And he said to all, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.	sacrifice,selfishness
0	Luke 9:23-24	And he said to all, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.	sacrifice
0	Luke 9:24	For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.	sacrifice
0	Luke 9:25	For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?	idols
0	Luke 9:26	For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.	second-coming
0	Luke 9:48	And said to them, &ldquo;Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all is the one who is great.&rdquo;	humility
0	Luke 9:52-62	And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to make preparations for him. But the people did not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, &ldquo;Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them?&rdquo; But he turned and rebuked them. And they went on to another village. ...	following
0	Luke 9:62	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God.&rdquo;	faithfulness,following
0	Malachi 1:10	Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand.	selfishness
0	Malachi 1:11	For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering. For my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts.	evangelism
0	Malachi 2:1	&ldquo;And now, O priests, this command is for you.	conversion
0	Malachi 2:13-16	And this second thing you do. You cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. But you say, &ldquo;Why does he not?&rdquo; Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Did he not make them one, with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth. &ldquo;For the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and do not be faithless.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Malachi 2:14-15	But you say, &ldquo;Why does he not?&rdquo; Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Did he not make them one, with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth.	marriage
0	Malachi 2:16	&ldquo;For the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and do not be faithless.&rdquo;	family,marriage
0	Malachi 2:17	You have wearied the Lord with your words. But you say, &ldquo;How have we wearied him?&rdquo; By saying, &ldquo;Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them.&rdquo; Or by asking, &ldquo;Where is the God of justice?&rdquo;	evil
0	Malachi 2:2	If you will not listen, if you will not take it to heart to give honor to my name, says the Lord of hosts, then I will send the curse upon you and I will curse your blessings. Indeed, I have already cursed them, because you do not lay it to heart.	listening
0	Malachi 2:5	My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave them to him. It was a covenant of fear, and he feared me. He stood in awe of my name.	awe,peace
0	Malachi 3:1	&ldquo;Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts.	messiah,prophecy
0	Malachi 3:10	Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need.	blessing,debt,equipment,food,generosity,giving,money,promises
0	Malachi 3:1-18	&ldquo;Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old and as in former years. &ldquo;Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. ...	equipment,receiving
0	Malachi 3:16-18	Then those who feared the Lord spoke with one another. The Lord paid attention and heard them, and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name. &ldquo;They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve him.	kingdom
0	Malachi 3:17	&ldquo;They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him.	mercy
0	Malachi 3:3	He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord.	blessing,purification,righteousness
0	Malachi 3:5	&ldquo;Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts.	orphans,widows
0	Malachi 3:5-15	&ldquo;Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. &ldquo;For I the Lord do not change; therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, &lsquo;How shall we return?&rsquo; Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, &lsquo;How have we robbed you?&rsquo; In your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. ...	greed
0	Malachi 3:6	&ldquo;For I the Lord do not change; therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed.	blameless,faithfulness,protection,redeemer,safety,transformation
0	Malachi 4:1	&ldquo;For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch.	purification
0	Malachi 4:1-6	&ldquo;For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. &ldquo;Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. &ldquo;Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. ...	safety
0	Malachi 4:2	But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall.	blessing,healing,health,promises,righteousness
0	Malachi 4:4	&ldquo;Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel.	law
0	Malachi 4:5-6	&ldquo;Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Mark 1:1	The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.	mediator
0	Mark 1:13	And he was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him.	angels,fasting
0	Mark 1:14-15	Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God, and saying, &ldquo;The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel.&rdquo;	kingdom,repentance
0	Mark 1:15	And saying, &ldquo;The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel.&rdquo;	conversion,kingdom,repentance
0	Mark 1:25	But Jesus rebuked him, saying, &ldquo;Be silent, and come out of him!&rdquo;	sickness
0	Mark 1:26-27	And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him. And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, &ldquo;What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Mark 1:30	Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.	mediator
0	Mark 1:35	And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed.	almighty,prayer
0	Mark 1:4	John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.	baptism,repentance
0	Mark 1:40-45	And a leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling said to him, &ldquo;If you will, you can make me clean.&rdquo; Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, &ldquo;I will; be clean.&rdquo; And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean. And Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once, and said to him, &ldquo;See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to them.&rdquo; ...	miracles
0	Mark 1:41	Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, &ldquo;I will; be clean.&rdquo;	compassion
0	Mark 1:4-5	John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.	baptism
0	Mark 1:5	And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.	baptism
0	Mark 1:6	Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey.	clothing,food
0	Mark 1:8	I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Mark 1:8-10	I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.	baptism
0	Mark 1:9-11	In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, &ldquo;You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Mark 10:13-16	And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, &ldquo;Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.&rdquo; And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.	children,learning
0	Mark 10:14	But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, &ldquo;Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.	children
0	Mark 10:15	Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.&rdquo;	children
0	Mark 10:18	And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.	goodness
0	Mark 10:19	You know the commandments: &lsquo;Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.&rsquo;&rdquo;	honesty
0	Mark 10:21-25	And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, &ldquo;You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.&rdquo; Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, &ldquo;How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!&rdquo; And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, &ldquo;Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.&rdquo;	temptation
0	Mark 10:23	And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, &ldquo;How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!&rdquo;	contentment
0	Mark 10:27	Jesus looked at them and said, &ldquo;With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God.&rdquo;	miracles,sickness
0	Mark 10:29-30	Jesus said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life.	persecution
0	Mark 10:30	Who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life.	persecution
0	Mark 10:43-45	But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Mark 10:44-45	And whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&rdquo;	serving
0	Mark 10:45	For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&rdquo;	community,eternal-life,humility,sacrifice,savior,serving
0	Mark 10:52	And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Go your way; your faith has made you well.&rdquo; And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way.	faith,strength
0	Mark 10:6	But from the beginning of creation, &lsquo;God made them male and female.&rsquo;	receiving
0	Mark 10:6-31	But from the beginning of creation, &lsquo;God made them male and female.&rsquo; &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.&rsquo; So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo; And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter. ...	family
0	Mark 10:6-9	But from the beginning of creation, &lsquo;God made them male and female.&rsquo; &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.&rsquo; So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Mark 10:8-12	And the two shall become one flesh.&rsquo; So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo; And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter. And he said to them, &ldquo;Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Mark 10:9	What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo;	marriage,planning,relationships
0	Mark 11:22	And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Have faith in God.	faith
0	Mark 11:22-24	And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Have faith in God. Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, &lsquo;Be taken up and thrown into the sea,&rsquo; and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.	faith
0	Mark 11:23	Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, &lsquo;Be taken up and thrown into the sea,&rsquo; and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.	confession,heart
0	Mark 11:24	Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.	encouragement,faith,prayer,promises,trust
0	Mark 11:24-25	Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.&rdquo;	poverty
0	Mark 11:25	And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.&rdquo;	forgiveness,prayer,reconciliation
0	Mark 11:30	Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Mark 12:18-27	And Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying, &ldquo;Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. There were seven brothers; the first took a wife, and when he died left no offspring. And the second took her, and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise. And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman also died. ...	second-coming
0	Mark 12:21-25	And the second took her, and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise. And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman also died. In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.&rdquo; Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.	marriage
0	Mark 12:28-34	And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, &ldquo;Which commandment is the most important of all?&rdquo; Jesus answered, &ldquo;The most important is, &lsquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.&rsquo; The second is this: &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rsquo; There is no other commandment greater than these.&rdquo; And the scribe said to him, &ldquo;You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. ...	neighbor
0	Mark 12:29	Jesus answered, &ldquo;The most important is, &lsquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.	comforter
0	Mark 12:29-31	Jesus answered, &ldquo;The most important is, &lsquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.&rsquo; The second is this: &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rsquo; There is no other commandment greater than these.&rdquo;	love,neighbor
0	Mark 12:29-33	Jesus answered, &ldquo;The most important is, &lsquo;Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.&rsquo; The second is this: &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rsquo; There is no other commandment greater than these.&rdquo; And the scribe said to him, &ldquo;You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.&rdquo;	law
0	Mark 12:30	And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.&rsquo;	heart,mind,neighbor,strength
0	Mark 12:31	The second is this: &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rsquo; There is no other commandment greater than these.&rdquo;	law,love,neighbor,selfishness
0	Mark 12:40	Who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.&rdquo;	widows
0	Mark 12:41	And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums.	generosity
0	Mark 12:41-44	And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.&rdquo;	generosity,giving,money,widows
0	Mark 13:10	And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations.	rebirth
0	Mark 13:11	And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.	worrying
0	Mark 13:11-13	And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.	persecution
0	Mark 13:13	And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.	blessing,persecution,suffering
0	Mark 13:26-27	And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven.	second-coming
0	Mark 13:31	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.	kingdom
0	Mark 13:32	&ldquo;But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.	sadness,second-coming
0	Mark 13:32-37	&ldquo;But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore stay awake&mdash;for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning&mdash; lest he come suddenly and find you asleep. ...	second-coming
0	Mark 14:12	And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, &ldquo;Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?&rdquo;	conversion
0	Mark 14:23	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it.	wine
0	Mark 14:24	And he said to them, &ldquo;This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.	blood,covenant,wine
0	Mark 14:25	Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Mark 14:26	And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.	singing
0	Mark 14:27	And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;You will all fall away, for it is written, &lsquo;I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.&rsquo;	prophecy
0	Mark 14:36	And he said, &ldquo;Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will.&rdquo;	easter
0	Mark 14:38	Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.&rdquo;	temptation
0	Mark 14:62	And Jesus said, &ldquo;I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Mark 15:23	And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it.	wine
0	Mark 15:25	And it was the third hour when they crucified him.	crucifixion
0	Mark 15:27-28	And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left.	messiah
0	Mark 15:27-29	And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, &ldquo;Aha! You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,	prophecy
0	Mark 15:32	Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe.&rdquo; Those who were crucified with him also reviled him.	easter
0	Mark 15:42	And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,	sabbath
0	Mark 15:43	Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the Council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.	courage
0	Mark 15:46-47	And Joseph bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud and laid him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.	easter
0	Mark 16:1	When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him.	sabbath
0	Mark 16:12	After these things he appeared in another form to two of them, as they were walking into the country.	easter
0	Mark 16:1-20	When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, &ldquo;Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?&rdquo; And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back&mdash;it was very large. And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. ...	punishment,resurrection
0	Mark 16:14	Afterward he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen.	evangelism
0	Mark 16:15	And he said to them, &ldquo;Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation.	baptism,calling,evangelism,sickness
0	Mark 16:15-16	And he said to them, &ldquo;Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.	baptism,evangelism,salvation
0	Mark 16:16	Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.	baptism,conversion,evangelism,faith,judgment,mediator,pentecost,punishment,rebirth,salvation
0	Mark 16:17	And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues;	miracles
0	Mark 16:1-7	When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, &ldquo;Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?&rdquo; And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back&mdash;it was very large. And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. ...	resurrection
0	Mark 16:17-18	And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.&rdquo;	sickness,world
0	Mark 16:18	They will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.&rdquo;	dependence
0	Mark 16:1-8	When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, &ldquo;Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?&rdquo; And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back&mdash;it was very large. And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. ...	easter,resurrection
0	Mark 16:20	And they went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the message by accompanying signs.]]	calling,miracles
0	Mark 16:5-7	And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. And he said to them, &ldquo;Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him. But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you.&rdquo;	easter,resurrection
0	Mark 16:6	And he said to them, &ldquo;Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him.	easter,resurrection
0	Mark 16:9	[[Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.	crucifixion,easter,resurrection
0	Mark 2:1-28	And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home. And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, &ldquo;Son, your sins are forgiven.&rdquo; ...	wine
0	Mark 2:18	Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, &ldquo;Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?&rdquo;	fasting
0	Mark 2:18-20	Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, &ldquo;Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?&rdquo; And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.	fasting
0	Mark 2:22	And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins&mdash;and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins.&rdquo;	wine
0	Mark 2:23-27	One Sabbath he was going through the grainfields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the Pharisees were saying to him, &ldquo;Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Have you never read what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.	acknowledging
0	Mark 2:27	And he said to them, &ldquo;The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.	acknowledging,rest,sabbath
0	Mark 2:27-28	And he said to them, &ldquo;The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.&rdquo;	rest
0	Mark 2:28	So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Mark 3:15	And have authority to cast out demons.	miracles
0	Mark 3:28-29	&ldquo;Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter, but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin&rdquo;&mdash;	sin,weakness
0	Mark 3:31-35	And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, &ldquo;Your mother and your brothers are outside, seeking you.&rdquo; And he answered them, &ldquo;Who are my mother and my brothers?&rdquo; And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, &ldquo;Here are my mother and my brothers! For whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother.&rdquo;	family
0	Mark 3:5	And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, &ldquo;Stretch out your hand.&rdquo; He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.	anger
0	Mark 4:1-20	Again he began to teach beside the sea. And a very large crowd gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land. And he was teaching them many things in parables, and in his teaching he said to them: &ldquo;Listen! A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it. Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil. ...	listening
0	Mark 4:17	And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away.	persecution
0	Mark 4:18-19	And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.	materialism
0	Mark 4:19	But the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.	debt,money
0	Mark 4:24	And he said to them, &ldquo;Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you.	listening
0	Mark 4:29	But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Mark 4:3	&ldquo;Listen! A sower went out to sow.	harvest
0	Mark 4:39	And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, &ldquo;Peace! Be still!&rdquo; And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.	rest
0	Mark 5:1-43	They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gerasenes. And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. He lived among the tombs. And no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain, for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him. Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones. ...	sickness
0	Mark 5:19	And he did not permit him but said to him, &ldquo;Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.&rdquo;	mercy
0	Mark 5:34	And he said to her, &ldquo;Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your disease.&rdquo;	healing,health,sickness
0	Mark 5:36	But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, &ldquo;Do not fear, only believe.&rdquo;	courage,fear,trust
0	Mark 6:12	So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent.	repentance
0	Mark 6:1-56	He went away from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him. And on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished, saying, &ldquo;Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us?&rdquo; And they took offense at him. And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own household.&rdquo; And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. ...	miracles
0	Mark 6:2	And on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished, saying, &ldquo;Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands?	sabbath
0	Mark 6:31	And he said to them, &ldquo;Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.&rdquo; For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.	rest
0	Mark 6:32	And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves.	rest
0	Mark 6:34	When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things.	compassion
0	Mark 6:37	But he answered them, &ldquo;You give them something to eat.&rdquo; And they said to him, &ldquo;Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?&rdquo;	bread
0	Mark 6:45-52	Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd. And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray. And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land. And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them, but when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out, ...	miracles
0	Mark 6:50	For they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, &ldquo;Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.&rdquo;	fear
0	Mark 7:1-37	Now when the Pharisees gathered to him, with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands, holding to the tradition of the elders, and when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches.) And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, &ldquo;Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands?&rdquo; ...	christmas,faithfulness
0	Mark 7:14	And he called the people to him again and said to them, &ldquo;Hear me, all of you, and understand:	listening
0	Mark 7:14-23	And he called the people to him again and said to them, &ldquo;Hear me, all of you, and understand: There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him.&rdquo; And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, &ldquo;Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?&rdquo; (Thus he declared all foods clean.) ...	food
0	Mark 7:19	Since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?&rdquo; (Thus he declared all foods clean.)	equipment
0	Mark 7:20-23	And he said, &ldquo;What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.&rdquo;	evil,greed,pride,sin,thoughts
0	Mark 7:21	For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery,	heart
0	Mark 7:31-37	Then he returned from the region of Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, in the region of the Decapolis. And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment, and they begged him to lay his hand on him. And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting touched his tongue. And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, &ldquo;Ephphatha,&rdquo; that is, &ldquo;Be opened.&rdquo; And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly. ...	understanding
0	Mark 8:2	&ldquo;I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat.	compassion
0	Mark 8:22-26	And they came to Bethsaida. And some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village, and when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, &ldquo;Do you see anything?&rdquo; And he looked up and said, &ldquo;I see men, but they look like trees, walking.&rdquo; Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again; and he opened his eyes, his sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. And he sent him to his home, saying, &ldquo;Do not even enter the village.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Mark 8:31	And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again.	easter,resurrection
0	Mark 8:31-36	And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, &ldquo;Get behind me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.&rdquo; And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it. ...	materialism
0	Mark 8:34	And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.	selfishness
0	Mark 8:36	For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul?	greed,mediator,money,soul
0	Mark 8:38	For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.&rdquo;	angels,redeemer,second-coming
0	Mark 9:1	And he said to them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Mark 9:11-13	And they asked him, &ldquo;Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him.&rdquo;	prophecy
0	Mark 9:1-13	And he said to them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.&rdquo; And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them, and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. And Peter said to Jesus, &ldquo;Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah.&rdquo; ...	transformation
0	Mark 9:23	And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;&lsquo;If you can&rsquo;! All things are possible for one who believes.&rdquo;	faith,health,hope,miracles
0	Mark 9:24	Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, &ldquo;I believe; help my unbelief!&rdquo;	faith,trust
0	Mark 9:29	And he said to them, &ldquo;This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.&rdquo;	fasting
0	Mark 9:33-37	And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house he asked them, &ldquo;What were you discussing on the way?&rdquo; But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest. And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, &ldquo;If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.&rdquo; And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them, &ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.&rdquo;	humility
0	Mark 9:35	And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, &ldquo;If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.&rdquo;	humility,serving
0	Mark 9:36-37	And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them, &ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.&rdquo;	children
0	Mark 9:37	&ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.&rdquo;	children,orphans
0	Mark 9:41	For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward.	mercy,reward
0	Mark 9:42-47	&ldquo;Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,	temptation
0	Mark 9:43	And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire.	awe,hell
0	Mark 9:43-48	And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, &lsquo;where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.&rsquo;	hell
0	Mark 9:45	And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell.	hell
0	Mark 9:47	And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,	hell
0	Mark 9:48	&lsquo;where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.&rsquo;	hell
0	Mark 9:50	Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.&rdquo;	peace
0	Mark 9:7	And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, &ldquo;This is my beloved Son; listen to him.&rdquo;	listening
0	Mark 9:9	And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.	easter
0	Matthew 1:1	The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.	messiah
0	Matthew 1:16	And Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.	mediator,nearness
0	Matthew 1:18	Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit.	almighty,holy-spirit,mediator
0	Matthew 1:18-25	Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, &ldquo;Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.&rdquo; All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet: ...	christmas,jesus,miracles
0	Matthew 1:2	Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,	messiah
0	Matthew 1:20	But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, &ldquo;Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.	angels,comforter
0	Matthew 1:20-21	But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, &ldquo;Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.&rdquo;	savior
0	Matthew 1:21	She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.&rdquo;	jesus
0	Matthew 1:23	&ldquo;Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel&rdquo; (which means, God with us).	ascension,blameless,jesus,messiah
0	Matthew 10:1	And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every affliction.	healing,health,sickness,world
0	Matthew 10:15	Truly, I say to you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town.	judgment,punishment
0	Matthew 10:16	&ldquo;Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.	safety
0	Matthew 10:16-20	&ldquo;Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues, and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.	courage
0	Matthew 10:20	For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.	comforter,spirit
0	Matthew 10:22	And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.	blessing,faithfulness,persecution,suffering
0	Matthew 10:24	&ldquo;A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.	slavery
0	Matthew 10:26	&ldquo;So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.	fear
0	Matthew 10:28	And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.	awe,body,courage,death,fear,hell,overcoming,punishment,receiving,soul,valuable
0	Matthew 10:29	Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father.	blessing
0	Matthew 10:29-31	Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.	dependence,fear
0	Matthew 10:30	But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.	body
0	Matthew 10:32	So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven,	confession
0	Matthew 10:33	But whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.	confession
0	Matthew 10:34-36	&ldquo;Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.	peace
0	Matthew 10:37	Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.	love,sacrifice
0	Matthew 10:38	And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.	sacrifice,suffering
0	Matthew 10:39	Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.	suffering
0	Matthew 10:41-42	The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.&rdquo;	reward
0	Matthew 10:42	And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.&rdquo;	compassion,generosity,giving,reward,serving
0	Matthew 10:42-13:22	And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.&rdquo; When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, &ldquo;Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Go and tell John what you hear and see: ...	christmas
0	Matthew 10:5-13:44	These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, &ldquo;Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And proclaim as you go, saying, &lsquo;The kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rsquo; Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay. Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts, ...	addiction
0	Matthew 10:5-8	These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, &ldquo;Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And proclaim as you go, saying, &lsquo;The kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rsquo; Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay.	community
0	Matthew 10:7-14	And proclaim as you go, saying, &lsquo;The kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rsquo; Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay. Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts, no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff, for the laborer deserves his food. And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart. ...	evangelism
0	Matthew 10:7-8	And proclaim as you go, saying, &lsquo;The kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rsquo; Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay.	kingdom
0	Matthew 10:8	Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay.	community,giving,healing,health,serving,sickness
0	Matthew 10:8-39	Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay. Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts, no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff, for the laborer deserves his food. And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart. As you enter the house, greet it. ...	materialism
0	Matthew 11:11	Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.	almighty
0	Matthew 11:15	He who has ears to hear, let him hear.	listening
0	Matthew 11:1-6	When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, &ldquo;Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Go and tell John what you hear and see: the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. ...	evangelism
0	Matthew 11:19	The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, &lsquo;Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!&rsquo; Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds.&rdquo;	wine
0	Matthew 11:20	Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent.	repentance
0	Matthew 11:23	And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.	hell
0	Matthew 11:24	But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Matthew 11:25	At that time Jesus declared, &ldquo;I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children;	gratitude,heaven
0	Matthew 11:27	All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.	father
0	Matthew 11:28	Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.	death,encouragement,evangelism,gratitude,healing,hope,rest,strength,weakness,work
0	Matthew 11:28-29	Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.	promises,rest
0	Matthew 11:28-30	Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.&rdquo;	encouragement,peace,rest,worrying
0	Matthew 11:29	Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.	dependence,gentleness,heart,humility,learning,rest
0	Matthew 11:29-30	Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.&rdquo;	gentleness,humility,learning,rest
0	Matthew 11:30	For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.&rdquo;	jesus
0	Matthew 12:10-12	And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, &ldquo;Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?&rdquo;&mdash;so that they might accuse him. He said to them, &ldquo;Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Matthew 12:13	Then he said to the man, &ldquo;Stretch out your hand.&rdquo; And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.	healing
0	Matthew 12:15	Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all	sickness
0	Matthew 12:1-8	At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, &ldquo;Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.&rdquo; He said to them, &ldquo;Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? ...	acknowledging
0	Matthew 12:21	And in his name the Gentiles will hope.&rdquo;	hope
0	Matthew 12:28	But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.	kingdom,miracles
0	Matthew 12:30	Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.	evangelism
0	Matthew 12:31-32	Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.	sin
0	Matthew 12:33	&ldquo;Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit.	fruitfulness
0	Matthew 12:34	You brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.	gossip,heart
0	Matthew 12:35	The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil.	goodness,speaking
0	Matthew 12:36	I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak,	gossip,judgment,self-control,speaking
0	Matthew 12:36-37	I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Matthew 12:37	For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.&rdquo;	judgment,speaking
0	Matthew 12:39	But he answered them, &ldquo;An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.	miracles
0	Matthew 12:40	For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.	easter
0	Matthew 12:41	The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.	repentance
0	Matthew 12:50	For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.&rdquo;	family
0	Matthew 12:7	And if you had known what this means, &lsquo;I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,&rsquo; you would not have condemned the guiltless.	sacrifice
0	Matthew 12:9-13	He went on from there and entered their synagogue. And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, &ldquo;Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?&rdquo;&mdash;so that they might accuse him. He said to them, &ldquo;Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.&rdquo; Then he said to the man, &ldquo;Stretch out your hand.&rdquo; And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.	miracles
0	Matthew 13:11	And he answered them, &ldquo;To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given.	kingdom
0	Matthew 13:15	For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.&rsquo;	healing
0	Matthew 13:19	When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path.	devil
0	Matthew 13:1-9	That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea. And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach. And he told them many things in parables, saying: &ldquo;A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, since they had no depth of soil, ...	fruitfulness
0	Matthew 13:2	And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach.	the-word
0	Matthew 13:20-21	As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.	persecution
0	Matthew 13:21	Yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.	persecution
0	Matthew 13:22	As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.	money,temptation,the-word,worrying
0	Matthew 13:22-44	As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.&rdquo; He put another parable before them, saying, &ldquo;The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field, but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also. ...	greed
0	Matthew 13:23	As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.&rdquo;	fruitfulness,harvest,understanding
0	Matthew 13:24-30	He put another parable before them, saying, &ldquo;The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field, but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also. And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, &lsquo;Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?&rsquo; He said to them, &lsquo;An enemy has done this.&rsquo; So the servants said to him, &lsquo;Then do you want us to go and gather them?&rsquo; ...	harvest
0	Matthew 13:30	Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.&rsquo;&rdquo;	harvest,kingdom
0	Matthew 13:33	He told them another parable. &ldquo;The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened.&rdquo;	bread
0	Matthew 13:34-35	All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables; indeed, he said nothing to them without a parable. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet: &ldquo;I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter what has been hidden since the foundation of the world.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Matthew 13:37	He answered, &ldquo;The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.	harvest
0	Matthew 13:37-43	He answered, &ldquo;The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world, and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the close of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, ...	harvest
0	Matthew 13:39	And the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are angels.	devil,harvest
0	Matthew 13:40-43	Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the close of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.	second-coming
0	Matthew 13:41	The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers,	angels
0	Matthew 13:41-42	The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.	hell
0	Matthew 13:42	And throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.	hell
0	Matthew 13:43	Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.	harvest,heaven
0	Matthew 13:44	&ldquo;The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.	seeking
0	Matthew 13:44-46	&ldquo;The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. &ldquo;Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it.	seeking
0	Matthew 13:45	&ldquo;Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls,	seeking
0	Matthew 13:45-46	&ldquo;Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it.	seeking
0	Matthew 13:49	So it will be at the close of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous	angels,judgment
0	Matthew 13:50	And throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.	hell
0	Matthew 13:55	Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And are not his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?	mediator
0	Matthew 13:55-56	Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And are not his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? And are not all his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?&rdquo;	mediator
0	Matthew 14:13-21	Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns. When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick. Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, &ldquo;This is a desolate place, and the day is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.&rdquo; But Jesus said, &ldquo;They need not go away; you give them something to eat.&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;We have only five loaves here and two fish.&rdquo; ...	compassion
0	Matthew 14:1-36	At that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus, and he said to his servants, &ldquo;This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.&rdquo; For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because John had been saying to him, &ldquo;It is not lawful for you to have her.&rdquo; And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a prophet. ...	courage
0	Matthew 14:14	When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick.	compassion,healing,sickness
0	Matthew 14:15	Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, &ldquo;This is a desolate place, and the day is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.&rdquo;	bread
0	Matthew 14:19	Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.	bread,food
0	Matthew 14:23	And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone,	almighty,sadness
0	Matthew 14:27	But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, &ldquo;Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.&rdquo;	fear
0	Matthew 14:29	He said, &ldquo;Come.&rdquo; So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus.	courage
0	Matthew 14:33	And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, &ldquo;Truly you are the Son of God.&rdquo;	jesus
0	Matthew 15:10	And he called the people to him and said to them, &ldquo;Hear and understand:	listening
0	Matthew 15:11	It is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person.&rdquo;	food,thoughts
0	Matthew 15:1-39	Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, &ldquo;Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat.&rdquo; He answered them, &ldquo;And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God commanded, &lsquo;Honor your father and your mother,&rsquo; and, &lsquo;Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.&rsquo; But you say, &lsquo;If anyone tells his father or his mother, &ldquo;What you would have gained from me is given to God,&rdquo; ...	easter,faithfulness
0	Matthew 15:17	Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled?	equipment
0	Matthew 15:17-20	Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled? But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. These are what defile a person. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone.&rdquo;	sin
0	Matthew 15:18-20	But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. These are what defile a person. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone.&rdquo;	heart,lying
0	Matthew 15:21-28	And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, &ldquo;Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David; my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon.&rdquo; But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, &ldquo;Send her away, for she is crying out after us.&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.&rdquo; But she came and knelt before him, saying, &ldquo;Lord, help me.&rdquo; ...	miracles
0	Matthew 15:28	Then Jesus answered her, &ldquo;O woman, great is your faith! Be it done for you as you desire.&rdquo; And her daughter was healed instantly.	faith
0	Matthew 15:32	Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, &ldquo;I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.&rdquo;	compassion
0	Matthew 15:4	For God commanded, &lsquo;Honor your father and your mother,&rsquo; and, &lsquo;Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.&rsquo;	family
0	Matthew 15:9	In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.&rsquo;&rdquo;	sabbath
0	Matthew 16:1-17:27	And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. He answered them, &ldquo;When it is evening, you say, &lsquo;It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.&rsquo; And in the morning, &lsquo;It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.&rsquo; You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.&rdquo; So he left them and departed. When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread. ...	worrying
0	Matthew 16:1-28	And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. He answered them, &ldquo;When it is evening, you say, &lsquo;It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.&rsquo; And in the morning, &lsquo;It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.&rsquo; You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.&rdquo; So he left them and departed. When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread. ...	awe
0	Matthew 16:15-19	He said to them, &ldquo;But who do you say that I am?&rdquo; Simon Peter replied, &ldquo;You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.&rdquo; And Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.&rdquo;	church
0	Matthew 16:18	And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.	awe,church,faithfulness,hell,pentecost,redeemer,safety
0	Matthew 16:18-28	And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.&rdquo; Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, &ldquo;Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never happen to you.&rdquo; ...	greed
0	Matthew 16:19	I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Matthew 16:21-23	From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, &ldquo;Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never happen to you.&rdquo; But he turned and said to Peter, &ldquo;Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.&rdquo;	suffering
0	Matthew 16:23	But he turned and said to Peter, &ldquo;Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.&rdquo;	devil
0	Matthew 16:23-17:8	But he turned and said to Peter, &ldquo;Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.&rdquo; Then Jesus told his disciples, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. ...	courage
0	Matthew 16:24	Then Jesus told his disciples, &ldquo;If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.	following
0	Matthew 16:25	For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.	life
0	Matthew 16:26	For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul?	life,materialism,soul
0	Matthew 16:27	For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done.	angels,judgment,punishment,reward,second-coming
0	Matthew 17:11-13	He answered, &ldquo;Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands.&rdquo; Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist.	almighty
0	Matthew 17:14-20	And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and, kneeling before him, said, &ldquo;Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water. And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him.&rdquo; And Jesus answered, &ldquo;O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me.&rdquo; And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly. ...	miracles
0	Matthew 17:2	And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light.	light
0	Matthew 17:20	He said to them, &ldquo;Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, &lsquo;Move from here to there,&rsquo; and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.&rdquo;	courage,faith,fasting,healing,miracles,strength
0	Matthew 17:20-22	He said to them, &ldquo;Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, &lsquo;Move from here to there,&rsquo; and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.&rdquo; As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, &ldquo;The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men,	fasting
0	Matthew 17:5	He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, &ldquo;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; listen to him.&rdquo;	listening
0	Matthew 17:8	And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.	fear
0	Matthew 18:1	At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, &ldquo;Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?&rdquo;	kingdom
0	Matthew 18:10	&ldquo;See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.	angels,children,heaven,learning
0	Matthew 18:12-14	What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.	children
0	Matthew 18:1-3	At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, &ldquo;Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?&rdquo; And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.	children
0	Matthew 18:1-35	At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, &ldquo;Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?&rdquo; And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, ...	gossip
0	Matthew 18:1-4	At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, &ldquo;Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?&rdquo; And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.	humility
0	Matthew 18:15	&ldquo;If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.	gossip,listening,reconciliation,speaking
0	Matthew 18:15-17	&ldquo;If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.	evil,lying,reconciliation
0	Matthew 18:15-20	&ldquo;If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. ...	reconciliation
0	Matthew 18:16	But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.	gossip,reconciliation
0	Matthew 18:17	If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.	church,gossip
0	Matthew 18:19	Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven.	promises
0	Matthew 18:19-20	Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them.&rdquo;	prayer
0	Matthew 18:19-22	Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them.&rdquo; Then Peter came up and said to him, &ldquo;Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.	family
0	Matthew 18:20	For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them.&rdquo;	church,community,friendship,prayer,worship
0	Matthew 18:21-22	Then Peter came up and said to him, &ldquo;Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.	forgiveness,mercy,reconciliation
0	Matthew 18:21-35	Then Peter came up and said to him, &ldquo;Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven. &ldquo;Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. ...	forgiveness,reconciliation,relationships
0	Matthew 18:23-35	&ldquo;Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, &lsquo;Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.&rsquo; And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. ...	forgiveness
0	Matthew 18:2-4	And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.	learning
0	Matthew 18:2-6	And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.	children
0	Matthew 18:3	And said, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.	rebirth
0	Matthew 18:33	And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?&rsquo;	mercy,reconciliation
0	Matthew 18:33-35	And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?&rsquo; And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart.&rdquo;	forgiveness
0	Matthew 18:4	Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.	humility
0	Matthew 18:5	&ldquo;Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me,	orphans
0	Matthew 18:7	&ldquo;Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes!	addiction
0	Matthew 18:8	And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.	eternal-life,hell,punishment
0	Matthew 18:9	And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire.	hell
0	Matthew 19:1-30	Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, &ldquo;Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;? ...	family
0	Matthew 19:13-14	Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said, &ldquo;Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.&rdquo;	children
0	Matthew 19:13-15	Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said, &ldquo;Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.&rdquo; And he laid his hands on them and went away.	children
0	Matthew 19:14	But Jesus said, &ldquo;Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.&rdquo;	children,heaven,jesus,learning
0	Matthew 19:16	And behold, a man came up to him, saying, &ldquo;Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life?&rdquo;	eternal-life
0	Matthew 19:17	And he said to him, &ldquo;Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments.&rdquo;	goodness,obedience
0	Matthew 19:19	Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	neighbor,receiving
0	Matthew 19:21	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.&rdquo;	generosity,giving,greed,heaven,materialism,money,selfishness
0	Matthew 19:21-26	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.&rdquo; When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his disciples, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.&rdquo; When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, &ldquo;Who then can be saved?&rdquo; ...	money
0	Matthew 19:22	When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.	selfishness
0	Matthew 19:26	But Jesus looked at them and said, &ldquo;With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.&rdquo;	health,miracles,strength,transformation,understanding
0	Matthew 19:27	Then Peter said in reply, &ldquo;See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have?&rdquo;	reward
0	Matthew 19:28	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.	reward
0	Matthew 19:28-30	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first.	second-coming
0	Matthew 19:29	And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life.	eternal-life,reward
0	Matthew 19:2-9	And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, &ldquo;Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo; ...	marriage
0	Matthew 19:29-20:28	And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. &ldquo;For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace, ...	poverty
0	Matthew 19:30	But many who are first will be last, and the last first.	reward
0	Matthew 19:3-9	And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, &ldquo;Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?&rdquo; He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away?&rdquo; ...	awe
0	Matthew 19:4	He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female,	receiving
0	Matthew 19:4-6	He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo;	marriage,relationships
0	Matthew 19:4-8	He answered, &ldquo;Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away?&rdquo; He said to them, &ldquo;Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so.	marriage
0	Matthew 19:5	And said, &lsquo;Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh&rsquo;?	relationships
0	Matthew 19:9	And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery.&rdquo;	marriage,relationships
0	Matthew 19:9-12	And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery.&rdquo; The disciples said to him, &ldquo;If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry.&rdquo; But he said to them, &ldquo;Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Matthew 2:10	When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.	joy
0	Matthew 2:11	And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.	jesus,worship
0	Matthew 2:1-12	Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, &ldquo;Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.&rdquo; When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him; and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him, &ldquo;In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet: ...	christmas,jesus,savior
0	Matthew 2:13	Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, &ldquo;Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child, to destroy him.&rdquo;	angels
0	Matthew 2:1-6	Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, &ldquo;Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.&rdquo; When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him; and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him, &ldquo;In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet: ...	conversion
0	Matthew 2:19	But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,	angels
0	Matthew 2:2	Saying, &ldquo;Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.&rdquo;	jesus,worship
0	Matthew 2:23	And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled: &ldquo;He shall be called a Nazarene.&rdquo;	ascension
0	Matthew 20:1-16	&ldquo;For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and to them he said, &lsquo;You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.&rsquo; So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same. ...	gratitude,work
0	Matthew 20:16	So the last will be first, and the first last.&rdquo;	selfishness
0	Matthew 20:18-19	&ldquo;See, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day.&rdquo;	easter,resurrection,sacrifice
0	Matthew 20:25	But Jesus called them to him and said, &ldquo;You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.	serving
0	Matthew 20:26	It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant,	serving
0	Matthew 20:26-27	It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,	humility,slavery
0	Matthew 20:28	Even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&rdquo;	sacrifice,serving
0	Matthew 20:34	And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him.	compassion
0	Matthew 21:15-16	But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, &ldquo;Hosanna to the Son of David!&rdquo; they were indignant, and they said to him, &ldquo;Do you hear what these are saying?&rdquo; And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Yes; have you never read, &ldquo;&lsquo;Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise&rsquo;?&rdquo;	children
0	Matthew 21:18-19	In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And he said to it, &ldquo;May no fruit ever come from you again!&rdquo; And the fig tree withered at once.	fruitfulness
0	Matthew 21:21	And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, &lsquo;Be taken up and thrown into the sea,&rsquo; it will happen.	faith,miracles,strength
0	Matthew 21:21-22	And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, &lsquo;Be taken up and thrown into the sea,&rsquo; it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith.&rdquo;	faith,prayer
0	Matthew 21:22	And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith.&rdquo;	faith,prayer,promises,thoughts
0	Matthew 21:25	The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man?&rdquo; And they discussed it among themselves, saying, &ldquo;If we say, &lsquo;From heaven,&rsquo; he will say to us, &lsquo;Why then did you not believe him?&rsquo;	baptism
0	Matthew 21:32	For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and believe him.	repentance
0	Matthew 21:42	Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Have you never read in the Scriptures: &ldquo;&lsquo;The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes&rsquo;?	comforter
0	Matthew 21:44	And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him.&rdquo;	comforter
0	Matthew 21:5	&ldquo;Say to the daughter of Zion, &lsquo;Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey, and on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden.&rsquo;&rdquo;	gentleness
0	Matthew 21:9	And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, &ldquo;Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!&rdquo;	easter
0	Matthew 22:10-23:28	And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests. &ldquo;But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, &lsquo;Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?&rsquo; And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, &lsquo;Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.&rsquo; For many are called, but few are chosen.&rdquo; ...	addiction
0	Matthew 22:11-14	&ldquo;But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, &lsquo;Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?&rsquo; And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, &lsquo;Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.&rsquo; For many are called, but few are chosen.&rdquo;	calling
0	Matthew 22:14	For many are called, but few are chosen.&rdquo;	calling
0	Matthew 22:16	And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, &ldquo;Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and you do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances.	truth
0	Matthew 22:21	They said, &ldquo;Caesar's.&rdquo; Then he said to them, &ldquo;Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.&rdquo;	debt
0	Matthew 22:26-30	So too the second and third, down to the seventh. After them all, the woman died. In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her.&rdquo; But Jesus answered them, &ldquo;You are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.	marriage
0	Matthew 22:30	For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.	almighty,angels,marriage
0	Matthew 22:36-40	&ldquo;Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.&rdquo;	love,neighbor,world
0	Matthew 22:37	And he said to him, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.	heart,jesus,love,mind,neighbor,thoughts
0	Matthew 22:37-39	And he said to him, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.	contentment,love,materialism
0	Matthew 22:37-40	And he said to him, &ldquo;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.&rdquo;	community,neighbor
0	Matthew 22:39	And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.	neighbor
0	Matthew 23:10-12	Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ. The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.	humility
0	Matthew 23:11	The greatest among you shall be your servant.	serving
0	Matthew 23:12	Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.	humility
0	Matthew 23:13-15	&ldquo;But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.	judgment
0	Matthew 23:1-39	Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, &ldquo;The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so practice and observe whatever they tell you&mdash;but not what they do. For they preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, ...	righteousness
0	Matthew 23:15	Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.	hell,serving
0	Matthew 23:23	&ldquo;Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.	covenant,giving,mercy
0	Matthew 23:25	&ldquo;Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence.	greed
0	Matthew 23:26	You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean.	beauty
0	Matthew 23:33	You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell?	hell,punishment
0	Matthew 23:34	Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town,	persecution
0	Matthew 23:4	They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger.	freedom
0	Matthew 23:9	And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.	father
0	Matthew 24:12	And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold.	sin
0	Matthew 24:13	But the one who endures to the end will be saved.	blessing,conversion,patience
0	Matthew 24:14	And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come.	calling,kingdom,second-coming
0	Matthew 24:15	&ldquo;So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand),	rebirth
0	Matthew 24:1-51	Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them, &ldquo;You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.&rdquo; As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, &ldquo;Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?&rdquo; And Jesus answered them, &ldquo;See that no one leads you astray. For many will come in my name, saying, &lsquo;I am the Christ,&rsquo; and they will lead many astray. ...	awe,mediator,nearness,prophecy,second-coming
0	Matthew 24:2	But he answered them, &ldquo;You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.&rdquo;	the-word
0	Matthew 24:20	Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath.	sabbath
0	Matthew 24:21	For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be.	persecution
0	Matthew 24:21-22	For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short.	conversion,world
0	Matthew 24:22	And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short.	conversion,world
0	Matthew 24:23-26	Then if anyone says to you, &lsquo;Look, here is the Christ!&rsquo; or &lsquo;There he is!&rsquo; do not believe it. For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. So, if they say to you, &lsquo;Look, he is in the wilderness,&rsquo; do not go out. If they say, &lsquo;Look, he is in the inner rooms,&rsquo; do not believe it.	second-coming
0	Matthew 24:24	For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.	miracles
0	Matthew 24:27	For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.	second-coming
0	Matthew 24:3	As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, &ldquo;Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?&rdquo;	conversion
0	Matthew 24:30	Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.	second-coming
0	Matthew 24:30-31	Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.	second-coming
0	Matthew 24:31	And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.	angels,second-coming
0	Matthew 24:32-34	&ldquo;From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates. Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.	rebirth
0	Matthew 24:34	Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.	rebirth,second-coming
0	Matthew 24:35	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.	almighty,the-word
0	Matthew 24:36	&ldquo;But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only.	angels,ascension,conversion,father,judgment,nearness,prophecy,sadness,second-coming
0	Matthew 24:42	Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.	conversion,patience,second-coming,world
0	Matthew 24:42-44	Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.	second-coming
0	Matthew 24:44	Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.	conversion,world
0	Matthew 24:45	&ldquo;Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time?	contentment
0	Matthew 24:45-47	&ldquo;Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.	faithfulness
0	Matthew 24:51	And will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.	hell
0	Matthew 24:6-8	And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning of the birth pains.	mediator
0	Matthew 25:1-13	&ldquo;Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. ...	second-coming
0	Matthew 25:14-23	&ldquo;For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. ...	faithfulness
0	Matthew 25:14-30	&ldquo;For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. ...	almighty,money,reward,work
0	Matthew 25:1-46	&ldquo;Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. ...	awe,second-coming
0	Matthew 25:20-23	And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, &lsquo;Master, you delivered to me five talents; here I have made five talents more.&rsquo; His master said to him, &lsquo;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&rsquo; And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, &lsquo;Master, you delivered to me two talents; here I have made two talents more.&rsquo; His master said to him, &lsquo;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&rsquo;	obedience
0	Matthew 25:21	His master said to him, &lsquo;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&rsquo;	blessing,generosity,hope,joy,reliability,reward,serving
0	Matthew 25:23	His master said to him, &lsquo;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&rsquo;	reliability,reward
0	Matthew 25:27	Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest.	debt
0	Matthew 25:31	&ldquo;When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne.	angels,second-coming
0	Matthew 25:31-34	&ldquo;When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to those on his right, &lsquo;Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.	ascension
0	Matthew 25:31-46	&ldquo;When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to those on his right, &lsquo;Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, ...	almighty,giving,heaven,judgment,mediator,poverty,second-coming
0	Matthew 25:34-40	Then the King will say to those on his right, &lsquo;Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.&rsquo; Then the righteous will answer him, saying, &lsquo;Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? ...	generosity,mercy
0	Matthew 25:34-45	Then the King will say to those on his right, &lsquo;Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.&rsquo; Then the righteous will answer him, saying, &lsquo;Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? ...	kingdom
0	Matthew 25:35	For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me,	community
0	Matthew 25:35-40	For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.&rsquo; Then the righteous will answer him, saying, &lsquo;Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?&rsquo; ...	giving,serving
0	Matthew 25:36	I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.&rsquo;	clothing
0	Matthew 25:40	And the King will answer them, &lsquo;Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.&rsquo;	generosity,orphans,serving
0	Matthew 25:41	&ldquo;Then he will say to those on his left, &lsquo;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.	angels,ascension,devil,hell,judgment,punishment
0	Matthew 25:46	And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&rdquo;	awe,death,devil,eternal-life,heaven,hell,judgment,punishment,receiving,slavery,soul
0	Matthew 26:15	And said, &ldquo;What will you give me if I deliver him over to you?&rdquo; And they paid him thirty pieces of silver.	materialism
0	Matthew 26:26	Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, &ldquo;Take, eat; this is my body.&rdquo;	bread
0	Matthew 26:26-29	Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, &ldquo;Take, eat; this is my body.&rdquo; And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, &ldquo;Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.&rdquo;	bread
0	Matthew 26:27	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, &ldquo;Drink of it, all of you,	mediator
0	Matthew 26:27-28	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, &ldquo;Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.	blood
0	Matthew 26:27-29	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, &ldquo;Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.&rdquo;	wine
0	Matthew 26:28	For this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.	blood,covenant,forgiveness,wine
0	Matthew 26:29	I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.&rdquo;	wine
0	Matthew 26:29-41	I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.&rdquo; And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, &ldquo;You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, &lsquo;I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.&rsquo; But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.&rdquo; Peter answered him, &ldquo;Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away.&rdquo; ...	addiction
0	Matthew 26:30	And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.	singing
0	Matthew 26:39	And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, &ldquo;My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will.&rdquo;	suffering
0	Matthew 26:41	Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.&rdquo;	dependence,prayer,temptation,weakness
0	Matthew 26:45	Then he came to the disciples and said to them, &ldquo;Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.	rest
0	Matthew 26:52-54	Then Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?&rdquo;	faithfulness,protection,self-control
0	Matthew 26:53	Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?	angels
0	Matthew 26:64	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Matthew 26:67	Then they spit in his face and struck him. And some slapped him,	messiah
0	Matthew 27:24	So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, &ldquo;I am innocent of this man's blood; see to it yourselves.&rdquo;	purification
0	Matthew 27:28-29	And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, &ldquo;Hail, King of the Jews!&rdquo;	easter,sacrifice,suffering
0	Matthew 27:34	They offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it.	messiah
0	Matthew 27:35	And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots.	prophecy
0	Matthew 27:37	And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, &ldquo;This is Jesus, the King of the Jews.&rdquo;	easter
0	Matthew 27:38	Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.	messiah
0	Matthew 27:46	And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, &ldquo;Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?&rdquo; that is, &ldquo;My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?&rdquo;	messiah
0	Matthew 27:48	And one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink.	wine
0	Matthew 27:5	And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed, and he went and hanged himself.	almighty,nearness
0	Matthew 27:50-53	And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. The tombs also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.	easter,resurrection
0	Matthew 27:57-60	When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus. He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away.	messiah
0	Matthew 27:62	The next day, that is, after the day of Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate	sabbath
0	Matthew 27:65-66	Pilate said to them, &ldquo;You have a guard of soldiers. Go, make it as secure as you can.&rdquo; So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.	easter
0	Matthew 28:1-10	Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. ...	resurrection
0	Matthew 28:1-20	Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. ...	easter,resurrection
0	Matthew 28:14	And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.&rdquo;	worrying
0	Matthew 28:1-6	Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. ...	easter
0	Matthew 28:16-20	Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, &ldquo;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&rdquo;	world
0	Matthew 28:18	And Jesus came and said to them, &ldquo;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.	jesus,mediator,nearness,redeemer
0	Matthew 28:18-19	And Jesus came and said to them, &ldquo;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,	kingdom
0	Matthew 28:18-20	And Jesus came and said to them, &ldquo;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&rdquo;	baptism,church,dependence,evangelism,pentecost
0	Matthew 28:19	Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,	baptism,calling,comforter,god,holy-spirit,rebirth,redeemer,spirit
0	Matthew 28:19-20	Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&rdquo;	baptism,calling,church,evangelism,learning,reconciliation
0	Matthew 28:20	Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&rdquo;	compassion,rebirth,redeemer,sadness,safety
0	Matthew 28:3	His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.	angels
0	Matthew 28:5-6	But the angel said to the women, &ldquo;Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.	resurrection
0	Matthew 28:6	He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.	easter,resurrection
0	Matthew 3:11	&ldquo;I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.	baptism,confession,holy-spirit,repentance
0	Matthew 3:12	His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.&rdquo;	heaven,hell,judgment,punishment
0	Matthew 3:13-16	Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, &ldquo;I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?&rdquo; But Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.&rdquo; Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;	baptism
0	Matthew 3:13-17	Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, &ldquo;I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?&rdquo; But Jesus answered him, &ldquo;Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.&rdquo; Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, &ldquo;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&rdquo;	baptism
0	Matthew 3:16	And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;	baptism
0	Matthew 3:16-17	And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, &ldquo;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&rdquo;	spirit
0	Matthew 3:2	&ldquo;Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rdquo;	conversion,kingdom,repentance
0	Matthew 3:4	Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.	clothing,food
0	Matthew 3:4-4:11	Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, &ldquo;You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. ...	poverty
0	Matthew 3:8	Bear fruit in keeping with repentance.	fruitfulness,repentance
0	Matthew 4:1	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.	devil
0	Matthew 4:10	Then Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Be gone, Satan! For it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.&rsquo;&rdquo;	devil,mediator,redeemer,worship
0	Matthew 4:11	Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him.	angels,devil
0	Matthew 4:1-11	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.&rdquo; But he answered, &ldquo;It is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&rsquo;&rdquo; Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple ...	addiction,fasting,overcoming,temptation
0	Matthew 4:1-2	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.	fasting
0	Matthew 4:1-25	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.&rdquo; But he answered, &ldquo;It is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&rsquo;&rdquo; Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple ...	faithfulness,protection
0	Matthew 4:13-16	And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: &ldquo;The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles&mdash; the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Matthew 4:1-4	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.&rdquo; But he answered, &ldquo;It is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&rsquo;&rdquo;	fasting
0	Matthew 4:16	The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned.&rdquo;	light
0	Matthew 4:17	From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, &ldquo;Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.&rdquo;	conversion,kingdom,persecution,repentance,transformation
0	Matthew 4:2	And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.	fasting,the-word
0	Matthew 4:23	And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people.	healing,sickness
0	Matthew 4:24	So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them.	sickness,suffering
0	Matthew 4:3	And the tempter came and said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.&rdquo;	miracles,temptation
0	Matthew 4:4	But he answered, &ldquo;It is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&rsquo;&rdquo;	bread,fasting,food,fruitfulness,listening,the-word
0	Matthew 4:5	Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple	devil
0	Matthew 4:6	And said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;He will command his angels concerning you,&rsquo; and &ldquo;&lsquo;On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.&rsquo;&rdquo;	angels
0	Matthew 4:6-7	And said to him, &ldquo;If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, &ldquo;&lsquo;He will command his angels concerning you,&rsquo; and &ldquo;&lsquo;On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.&rsquo;&rdquo; Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Again it is written, &lsquo;You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.&rsquo;&rdquo;	transformation
0	Matthew 4:7	Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Again it is written, &lsquo;You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.&rsquo;&rdquo;	protection,temptation
0	Matthew 4:8	Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.	devil
0	Matthew 5:10	&ldquo;Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.	jesus,kingdom,persecution
0	Matthew 5:10-12	&ldquo;Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.	persecution,suffering
0	Matthew 5:10-20	&ldquo;Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. &ldquo;You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. &ldquo;You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. ...	christmas
0	Matthew 5:11	&ldquo;Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account.	gossip,lying,persecution
0	Matthew 5:11-12	&ldquo;Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.	persecution,reward
0	Matthew 5:1-18:35	Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying: &ldquo;Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. &ldquo;Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. ...	the-word
0	Matthew 5:12	Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.	persecution,reward
0	Matthew 5:13	&ldquo;You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.	light,strength
0	Matthew 5:13-16	&ldquo;You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. &ldquo;You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.	community,light,transformation
0	Matthew 5:14	&ldquo;You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.	light
0	Matthew 5:14-16	&ldquo;You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.	light
0	Matthew 5:1-48	Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying: &ldquo;Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. &ldquo;Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. ...	ascension,awe,mind,neighbor,protection,reconciliation,strength,weakness
0	Matthew 5:15-16	Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.	evangelism,goodness
0	Matthew 5:16	In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.	clothing,evangelism,jesus,light,mediator,neighbor,righteousness,serving,transformation,work
0	Matthew 5:17	&ldquo;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.	covenant,law
0	Matthew 5:17-18	&ldquo;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.	reliability
0	Matthew 5:17-19	&ldquo;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.	law,sabbath
0	Matthew 5:17-45	&ldquo;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;You have heard that it was said to those of old, &lsquo;You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.&rsquo; ...	law
0	Matthew 5:18	For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.	conversion,reliability
0	Matthew 5:18-20	For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.	kingdom
0	Matthew 5:19	Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.	faithfulness
0	Matthew 5:20	For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.	righteousness
0	Matthew 5:21-24	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said to those of old, &lsquo;You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.&rsquo; But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, &lsquo;You fool!&rsquo; will be liable to the hell of fire. So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.	anger
0	Matthew 5:22	But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, &lsquo;You fool!&rsquo; will be liable to the hell of fire.	anger,calling,hell,love,punishment,speaking
0	Matthew 5:23-24	So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.	anger,forgiveness,reconciliation
0	Matthew 5:23-26	So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. Truly, I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny.	reconciliation
0	Matthew 5:24	Leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.	reconciliation
0	Matthew 5:27-28	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said, &lsquo;You shall not commit adultery.&rsquo; But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.	relationships
0	Matthew 5:28	But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.	almighty,desires,devil,receiving,self-control,sin,thoughts
0	Matthew 5:29	If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell.	hell
0	Matthew 5:29-30	If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell.	hell,receiving,valuable
0	Matthew 5:3	&ldquo;Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.	dependence,humility,kingdom,spirit
0	Matthew 5:30	And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell.	hell
0	Matthew 5:32	But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.	marriage
0	Matthew 5:33	&ldquo;Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, &lsquo;You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.&rsquo;	receiving
0	Matthew 5:33-37	&ldquo;Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, &lsquo;You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.&rsquo; But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. Let what you say be simply &lsquo;Yes&rsquo; or &lsquo;No&rsquo;; anything more than this comes from evil.	promises
0	Matthew 5:34-37	But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. Let what you say be simply &lsquo;Yes&rsquo; or &lsquo;No&rsquo;; anything more than this comes from evil.	speaking
0	Matthew 5:37	Let what you say be simply &lsquo;Yes&rsquo; or &lsquo;No&rsquo;; anything more than this comes from evil.	honesty,lying,reliability
0	Matthew 5:3-7:27	&ldquo;Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. &ldquo;Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. &ldquo;Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. &ldquo;Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. &ldquo;Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. ...	poverty
0	Matthew 5:38-39	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said, &lsquo;An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.&rsquo; But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.	evil,protection,self-control
0	Matthew 5:39	But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.	evil
0	Matthew 5:4	&ldquo;Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.	blessing,death,sadness
0	Matthew 5:42	Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.	debt,generosity,giving,money,neighbor,serving
0	Matthew 5:43	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said, &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.&rsquo;	neighbor
0	Matthew 5:43-44	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said, &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.&rsquo; But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,	love
0	Matthew 5:43-48	&ldquo;You have heard that it was said, &lsquo;You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.&rsquo; But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? ...	evil,love,neighbor
0	Matthew 5:44	But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,	forgiveness,neighbor,persecution,prayer,sadness
0	Matthew 5:44-48	But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.	love
0	Matthew 5:45	So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.	grace
0	Matthew 5:48	You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.	gentleness,holiness,sin,transformation
0	Matthew 5:5	&ldquo;Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.	ascension,gentleness,work
0	Matthew 5:6	&ldquo;Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.	blessing,contentment,food,righteousness
0	Matthew 5:6-30	&ldquo;Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. &ldquo;Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. &ldquo;Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. &ldquo;Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. &ldquo;Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. ...	addiction
0	Matthew 5:7	&ldquo;Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.	forgiveness,mercy
0	Matthew 5:8	&ldquo;Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.	beauty,heart,heaven,honesty
0	Matthew 5:9	&ldquo;Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.	ascension,blessing,children,compassion,peace,reconciliation
0	Matthew 6:1	&ldquo;Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.	giving,reward
0	Matthew 6:10	Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.	almighty,ascension,kingdom,seeking
0	Matthew 6:11	Give us this day our daily bread,	bread
0	Matthew 6:12	And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.	debt,forgiveness
0	Matthew 6:12-15	And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.	forgiveness
0	Matthew 6:13	And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.	addiction,dependence,devil,evil,safety,temptation
0	Matthew 6:1-34	&ldquo;Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. &ldquo;Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. &ldquo;And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. ...	food,giving,materialism,prayer,reward,worrying
0	Matthew 6:14	For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you,	forgiveness,mercy
0	Matthew 6:1-4	&ldquo;Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. &ldquo;Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	generosity,giving,money,orphans
0	Matthew 6:14-15	For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.	compassion,forgiveness,reconciliation,transformation
0	Matthew 6:15	But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.	forgiveness
0	Matthew 6:16	&ldquo;And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.	fasting
0	Matthew 6:16-18	&ldquo;And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	fasting,reward
0	Matthew 6:17-18	But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	fasting
0	Matthew 6:18	That your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	fasting
0	Matthew 6:19-21	&ldquo;Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.	christmas,generosity,gentleness,giving,heaven,materialism,money
0	Matthew 6:19-24	&ldquo;Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. &ldquo;The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light, but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! ...	contentment
0	Matthew 6:2	&ldquo;Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.	humility,reward
0	Matthew 6:20	But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal.	reward
0	Matthew 6:21	For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.	debt,generosity,giving,gratitude,heart,money
0	Matthew 6:22-23	&ldquo;The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light, but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!	light
0	Matthew 6:24	&ldquo;No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.	confession,debt,faith,forgiveness,giving,greed,love,materialism,money,obedience,serving,slavery,world
0	Matthew 6:25	&ldquo;Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?	clothing,contentment,food,mind,money,thoughts,trust,worrying
0	Matthew 6:25-26	&ldquo;Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?	body,contentment
0	Matthew 6:25-34	&ldquo;Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. ...	clothing,contentment,dependence,peace,planning,worrying
0	Matthew 6:26	Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?	blessing,giving,trust
0	Matthew 6:27	And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?	worrying
0	Matthew 6:28	And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin,	clothing
0	Matthew 6:28-30	And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?	clothing
0	Matthew 6:28-34	And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, &lsquo;What shall we eat?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we drink?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we wear?&rsquo; For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. ...	contentment
0	Matthew 6:30-33	But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, &lsquo;What shall we eat?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we drink?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we wear?&rsquo; For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.	blessing
0	Matthew 6:31	Therefore do not be anxious, saying, &lsquo;What shall we eat?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we drink?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we wear?&rsquo;	dependence
0	Matthew 6:31-33	Therefore do not be anxious, saying, &lsquo;What shall we eat?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we drink?&rsquo; or &lsquo;What shall we wear?&rsquo; For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.	clothing,debt,money
0	Matthew 6:33	But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.	ascension,calling,christmas,church,contentment,debt,desires,faithfulness,generosity,giving,god,greed,harvest,idols,kingdom,learning,life,materialism,money,planning,relationships,reward,righteousness,seeking,self-control,serving,strength,truth,understanding
0	Matthew 6:34	&ldquo;Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.	fear,health,money,overcoming,peace,planning,worrying
0	Matthew 6:3-4	But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	giving
0	Matthew 6:3-7:11	But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. &ldquo;And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. &ldquo;And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. ...	greed
0	Matthew 6:4	So that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	giving,reward
0	Matthew 6:5	&ldquo;And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.	reward
0	Matthew 6:5-8	&ldquo;And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. &ldquo;And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him.	prayer
0	Matthew 6:6	But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.	prayer,reward
0	Matthew 6:7	&ldquo;And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.	mediator,prayer,speaking
0	Matthew 6:9	Pray then like this: &ldquo;Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.	acknowledging,almighty,heaven,prayer
0	Matthew 6:9-10	Pray then like this: &ldquo;Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.	kingdom
0	Matthew 6:9-13	Pray then like this: &ldquo;Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.	debt,father,mediator,prayer
0	Matthew 6:9-14	Pray then like this: &ldquo;Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. ...	prayer
0	Matthew 6:9-15	Pray then like this: &ldquo;Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. ...	forgiveness
0	Matthew 7:1	&ldquo;Judge not, that you be not judged.	gossip,judgment,receiving
0	Matthew 7:11	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!	goodness
0	Matthew 7:12	&ldquo;So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.	children,compassion,evil,generosity,gossip,honesty,jesus,law,neighbor,reconciliation,relationships
0	Matthew 7:1-2	&ldquo;Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you.	compassion,lying,weakness
0	Matthew 7:1-29	&ldquo;Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, &lsquo;Let me take the speck out of your eye,&rsquo; when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. ...	devil,fruitfulness,judgment
0	Matthew 7:13	&ldquo;Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.	awe,hell
0	Matthew 7:13-14	&ldquo;Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.	calling,conversion,hell,salvation,world
0	Matthew 7:13-27	&ldquo;Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. &ldquo;Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. ...	christmas
0	Matthew 7:15	&ldquo;Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.	clothing,lying
0	Matthew 7:1-5	&ldquo;Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, &lsquo;Let me take the speck out of your eye,&rsquo; when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.	judgment
0	Matthew 7:16	You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?	fruitfulness
0	Matthew 7:16-20	You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.	almighty,fruitfulness
0	Matthew 7:19	Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.	fruitfulness
0	Matthew 7:2	For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you.	judgment,mind,the-word
0	Matthew 7:21	&ldquo;Not everyone who says to me, &lsquo;Lord, Lord,&rsquo; will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.	kingdom,obedience,salvation
0	Matthew 7:21-23	&ldquo;Not everyone who says to me, &lsquo;Lord, Lord,&rsquo; will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, &lsquo;Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?&rsquo; And then will I declare to them, &lsquo;I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.&rsquo;	confession,evangelism,evil,faithfulness,forgiveness,hell,salvation
0	Matthew 7:22	On that day many will say to me, &lsquo;Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?&rsquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 7:23	And then will I declare to them, &lsquo;I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.&rsquo;	law
0	Matthew 7:24	&ldquo;Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.	listening,mind,wisdom,the-word
0	Matthew 7:24-29	&ldquo;Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it.&rdquo; And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching, ...	listening
0	Matthew 7:3	Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?	judgment
0	Matthew 7:7	&ldquo;Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.	prayer,reward,seeking
0	Matthew 7:7-8	&ldquo;Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.	seeking
0	Matthew 7:8	For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.	seeking
0	Matthew 7:9-12	Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him! &ldquo;So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.	father
0	Matthew 8:12	While the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.&rdquo;	hell
0	Matthew 8:13	And to the centurion Jesus said, &ldquo;Go; let it be done for you as you have believed.&rdquo; And the servant was healed at that very moment.	health
0	Matthew 8:1-4	When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him. And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, &ldquo;Lord, if you will, you can make me clean.&rdquo; And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, &ldquo;I will; be clean.&rdquo; And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a proof to them.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 8:16	That evening they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word and healed all who were sick.	health,sickness
0	Matthew 8:17	This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: &ldquo;He took our illnesses and bore our diseases.&rdquo;	sickness
0	Matthew 8:19-10:37	And a scribe came up and said to him, &ldquo;Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.&rdquo; And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.&rdquo; Another of the disciples said to him, &ldquo;Lord, let me first go and bury my father.&rdquo; And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.&rdquo; And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. ...	family
0	Matthew 8:20	And Jesus said to him, &ldquo;Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.&rdquo;	poverty
0	Matthew 8:23-27	And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep. And they went and woke him, saying, &ldquo;Save us, Lord; we are perishing.&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?&rdquo; Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. And the men marveled, saying, &ldquo;What sort of man is this, that even winds and sea obey him?&rdquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 8:24	And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep.	rest
0	Matthew 8:24-27	And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep. And they went and woke him, saying, &ldquo;Save us, Lord; we are perishing.&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?&rdquo; Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. And the men marveled, saying, &ldquo;What sort of man is this, that even winds and sea obey him?&rdquo;	world
0	Matthew 8:28-34	And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold, they cried out, &ldquo;What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?&rdquo; Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them. And the demons begged him, saying, &ldquo;If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs.&rdquo; And he said to them, &ldquo;Go.&rdquo; So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters. ...	miracles
0	Matthew 8:5-10	When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him, &ldquo;Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly.&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;I will come and heal him.&rdquo; But the centurion replied, &ldquo;Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, &lsquo;Go,&rsquo; and he goes, and to another, &lsquo;Come,&rsquo; and he comes, and to my servant, &lsquo;Do this,&rsquo; and he does it.&rdquo; ...	mediator
0	Matthew 8:5-13	When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him, &ldquo;Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly.&rdquo; And he said to him, &ldquo;I will come and heal him.&rdquo; But the centurion replied, &ldquo;Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, &lsquo;Go,&rsquo; and he goes, and to another, &lsquo;Come,&rsquo; and he comes, and to my servant, &lsquo;Do this,&rsquo; and he does it.&rdquo; ...	miracles,serving
0	Matthew 9:13	Go and learn what this means, &lsquo;I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.&rsquo; For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.&rdquo;	mercy,repentance,sacrifice
0	Matthew 9:1-38	And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, &ldquo;Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.&rdquo; And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, &ldquo;This man is blaspheming.&rdquo; But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, &ldquo;Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier, to say, &lsquo;Your sins are forgiven,&rsquo; or to say, &lsquo;Rise and walk&rsquo;? ...	harvest,sickness
0	Matthew 9:14	Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, &ldquo;Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?&rdquo;	fasting
0	Matthew 9:14-15	Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, &ldquo;Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?&rdquo; And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.	fasting
0	Matthew 9:15	And Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.	fasting
0	Matthew 9:1-5	And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, &ldquo;Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.&rdquo; And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, &ldquo;This man is blaspheming.&rdquo; But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, &ldquo;Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier, to say, &lsquo;Your sins are forgiven,&rsquo; or to say, &lsquo;Rise and walk&rsquo;?	evangelism
0	Matthew 9:16-17	No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.&rdquo;	transformation
0	Matthew 9:17	Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.&rdquo;	wine
0	Matthew 9:18	While he was saying these things to them, behold, a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying, &ldquo;My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 9:1-8	And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, &ldquo;Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.&rdquo; And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, &ldquo;This man is blaspheming.&rdquo; But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, &ldquo;Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier, to say, &lsquo;Your sins are forgiven,&rsquo; or to say, &lsquo;Rise and walk&rsquo;? ...	miracles
0	Matthew 9:19	And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.	miracles
0	Matthew 9:20-22	And behold, a woman who had suffered from a discharge of blood for twelve years came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, for she said to herself, &ldquo;If I only touch his garment, I will be made well.&rdquo; Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, &ldquo;Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well.&rdquo; And instantly the woman was made well.	miracles
0	Matthew 9:22	Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, &ldquo;Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well.&rdquo; And instantly the woman was made well.	faith
0	Matthew 9:23-26	And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion, he said, &ldquo;Go away, for the girl is not dead but sleeping.&rdquo; And they laughed at him. But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose. And the report of this went through all that district.	miracles
0	Matthew 9:27-31	And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, &ldquo;Have mercy on us, Son of David.&rdquo; When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Do you believe that I am able to do this?&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;Yes, Lord.&rdquo; Then he touched their eyes, saying, &ldquo;According to your faith be it done to you.&rdquo; And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, &ldquo;See that no one knows about it.&rdquo; But they went away and spread his fame through all that district.	miracles
0	Matthew 9:28	When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, &ldquo;Do you believe that I am able to do this?&rdquo; They said to him, &ldquo;Yes, Lord.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 9:33	And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, &ldquo;Never was anything like this seen in Israel.&rdquo;	miracles
0	Matthew 9:35	And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction.	healing,health,sickness
0	Matthew 9:35-38	And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.&rdquo;	prayer
0	Matthew 9:36	When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.	compassion,evangelism,harvest
0	Matthew 9:36-38	When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.&rdquo;	compassion,harvest
0	Matthew 9:37	Then he said to his disciples, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few;	harvest
0	Matthew 9:37-38	Then he said to his disciples, &ldquo;The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.&rdquo;	evangelism,harvest
0	Matthew 9:38	Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Matthew 9:6-8	But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins&rdquo;&mdash;he then said to the paralytic&mdash;&ldquo;Rise, pick up your bed and go home.&rdquo; And he rose and went home. When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men.	confession,dependence,evangelism
0	Matthew 9:9	As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, &ldquo;Follow me.&rdquo; And he rose and followed him.	obedience
0	Micah 1:2	Hear, you peoples, all of you; pay attention, O earth, and all that is in it, and let the Lord God be a witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple.	listening
0	Micah 2:1	Woe to those who devise wickedness and work evil on their beds! When the morning dawns, they perform it, because it is in the power of their hand.	evil
0	Micah 3:11	Its heads give judgment for a bribe; its priests teach for a price; its prophets practice divination for money; yet they lean on the Lord and say, &ldquo;Is not the Lord in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon us.&rdquo;	selfishness
0	Micah 5:1-15	Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek.  But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. And he shall be their peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men; ...	christmas
0	Micah 5:2	But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days.	jesus,messiah,prophecy,redeemer,reliability
0	Micah 6:12	Your rich men are full of violence; your inhabitants speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.	lying
0	Micah 6:8	He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?	community,compassion,dependence,gentleness,god,goodness,humility,jesus,law,mercy,orphans,planning,seeking
0	Micah 7:1-20	Woe is me! For I have become as when the summer fruit has been gathered, as when the grapes have been gleaned: there is no cluster to eat, no first-ripe fig that my soul desires. The godly has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among mankind; they all lie in wait for blood, and each hunts the other with a net. Their hands are on what is evil, to do it well; the prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul; thus they weave it together. The best of them is like a brier, the most upright of them a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, of your punishment, has come; now their confusion is at hand. Put no trust in a neighbor; have no confidence in a friend; guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your arms; ...	family
0	Micah 7:18	Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love.	forgiveness,mercy
0	Micah 7:18-19	Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love. He will again have compassion on us; he will tread our iniquities underfoot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.	forgiveness,sin
0	Micah 7:18-20	Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love. He will again have compassion on us; he will tread our iniquities underfoot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. You will show faithfulness to Jacob and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.	forgiveness
0	Micah 7:5	Put no trust in a neighbor; have no confidence in a friend; guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your arms;	friendship
0	Micah 7:7	But as for me, I will look to the Lord; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me.	hope
0	Micah 7:8	Rejoice not over me, O my enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in darkness, the Lord will be a light to me.	light
0	Nahum 1:1-9	An oracle concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh. The Lord is a jealous and avenging God; the Lord is avenging and wrathful; the Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebukes the sea and makes it dry; he dries up all the rivers; Bashan and Carmel wither; the bloom of Lebanon withers. The mountains quake before him; the hills melt; the earth heaves before him, the world and all who dwell in it. ...	world
0	Nahum 1:3	The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.	anger,self-control
0	Nahum 1:6	Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him.	anger
0	Nahum 1:7	The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; he knows those who take refuge in him.	encouragement,goodness,protection,safety,strength,trust
0	Nahum 3:1	Woe to the bloody city, all full of lies and plunder&mdash; no end to the prey!	lying
0	Nehemiah 1:4	As soon as I heard these words I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and I continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven.	fasting
0	Nehemiah 1:5	And I said, &ldquo;O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,	poverty
0	Nehemiah 10:31	And if the peoples of the land bring in goods or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we will not buy from them on the Sabbath or on a holy day. And we will forego the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of every debt.	sabbath
0	Nehemiah 10:35-37	We obligate ourselves to bring the firstfruits of our ground and the firstfruits of all fruit of every tree, year by year, to the house of the Lord; also to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God, the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the Law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks; and to bring the first of our dough, and our contributions, the fruit of every tree, the wine and the oil, to the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God; and to bring to the Levites the tithes from our ground, for it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all our towns where we labor.	giving
0	Nehemiah 10:39	For the people of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the contribution of grain, wine, and oil to the chambers, where the vessels of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister, and the gatekeepers and the singers. We will not neglect the house of our God.&rdquo;	wine
0	Nehemiah 12:27	And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites in all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgivings and with singing, with cymbals, harps, and lyres.	singing
0	Nehemiah 12:43	And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy; the women and children also rejoiced. And the joy of Jerusalem was heard far away.	joy
0	Nehemiah 13:15	In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food.	food,sabbath
0	Nehemiah 13:15-22	In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food. Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself! Then I confronted the nobles of Judah and said to them, &ldquo;What is this evil thing that you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers act in this way, and did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on this city? Now you are bringing more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.&rdquo; As soon as it began to grow dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut and gave orders that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. And I stationed some of my servants at the gates, that no load might be brought in on the Sabbath day. ...	sabbath
0	Nehemiah 13:21	But I warned them and said to them, &ldquo;Why do you lodge outside the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you.&rdquo; From that time on they did not come on the Sabbath.	sabbath
0	Nehemiah 13:29	Remember them, O my God, because they have desecrated the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites.	covenant
0	Nehemiah 13:5	Prepared for Tobiah a large chamber where they had previously put the grain offering, the frankincense, the vessels, and the tithes of grain, wine, and oil, which were given by commandment to the Levites, singers, and gatekeepers, and the contributions for the priests.	equipment
0	Nehemiah 2:3-8	I said to the king, &ldquo;Let the king live forever! Why should not my face be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' graves, lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire?&rdquo; Then the king said to me, &ldquo;What are you requesting?&rdquo; So I prayed to the God of heaven. And I said to the king, &ldquo;If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers' graves, that I may rebuild it.&rdquo; And the king said to me (the queen sitting beside him), &ldquo;How long will you be gone, and when will you return?&rdquo; So it pleased the king to send me when I had given him a time. And I said to the king, &ldquo;If it pleases the king, let letters be given me to the governors of the province Beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah, ...	christmas
0	Nehemiah 5:3-5	There were also those who said, &ldquo;We are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses to get grain because of the famine.&rdquo; And there were those who said, &ldquo;We have borrowed money for the king's tax on our fields and our vineyards. Now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children are as their children. Yet we are forcing our sons and our daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but it is not in our power to help it, for other men have our fields and our vineyards.&rdquo;	debt
0	Nehemiah 5:9-6:16	So I said, &ldquo;The thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations our enemies? Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this exacting of interest. Return to them this very day their fields, their vineyards, their olive orchards, and their houses, and the percentage of money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been exacting from them.&rdquo; Then they said, &ldquo;We will restore these and require nothing from them. We will do as you say.&rdquo; And I called the priests and made them swear to do as they had promised. I also shook out the fold of my garment and said, &ldquo;So may God shake out every man from his house and from his labor who does not keep this promise. So may he be shaken out and emptied.&rdquo; And all the assembly said &ldquo;Amen&rdquo; and praised the Lord. And the people did as they had promised. ...	christmas
0	Nehemiah 8:10	Then he said to them, &ldquo;Go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength.&rdquo;	food,joy,life,sadness,strength,weakness
0	Nehemiah 9:1	Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month the people of Israel were assembled with fasting and in sackcloth, and with earth on their heads.	fasting
0	Nehemiah 9:16	&ldquo;But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their neck and did not obey your commandments.	pride
0	Nehemiah 9:17	They refused to obey and were not mindful of the wonders that you performed among them, but they stiffened their neck and appointed a leader to return to their slavery in Egypt. But you are a God ready to forgive, gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and did not forsake them.	redeemer
0	Nehemiah 9:20	You gave your good Spirit to instruct them and did not withhold your manna from their mouth and gave them water for their thirst.	spirit
0	Nehemiah 9:21	Forty years you sustained them in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing. Their clothes did not wear out and their feet did not swell.	clothing
0	Nehemiah 9:38	&ldquo;Because of all this we make a firm covenant in writing; on the sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our priests.	covenant
0	Nehemiah 9:6	&ldquo;You are the Lord, you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them; and you preserve all of them; and the host of heaven worships you.	angels,creation,heaven,praise
0	Numbers 1:3	From twenty years old and upward, all in Israel who are able to go to war, you and Aaron shall list them, company by company.	pentecost
0	Numbers 11:1	And the people complained in the hearing of the Lord about their misfortunes, and when the Lord heard it, his anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some outlying parts of the camp.	anger
0	Numbers 11:1-35	And the people complained in the hearing of the Lord about their misfortunes, and when the Lord heard it, his anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some outlying parts of the camp. Then the people cried out to Moses, and Moses prayed to the Lord, and the fire died down. So the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of the Lord burned among them. Now the rabble that was among them had a strong craving. And the people of Israel also wept again and said, &ldquo;Oh that we had meat to eat! We remember the fish we ate in Egypt that cost nothing, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic. ...	food
0	Numbers 11:8	The people went about and gathered it and ground it in handmills or beat it in mortars and boiled it in pots and made cakes of it. And the taste of it was like the taste of cakes baked with oil.	bread
0	Numbers 12:13	And Moses cried to the Lord, &ldquo;O God, please heal her&mdash;please.&rdquo;	healing
0	Numbers 12:3	Now the man Moses was very meek, more than all people who were on the face of the earth.	gentleness,humility
0	Numbers 12:7	Not so with my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house.	reliability
0	Numbers 13:30	But Caleb quieted the people before Moses and said, &ldquo;Let us go up at once and occupy it, for we are well able to overcome it.&rdquo;	courage
0	Numbers 14:18	&lsquo;The Lord is slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, forgiving iniquity and transgression, but he will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, to the third and the fourth generation.&rsquo;	patience
0	Numbers 14:24	But my servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit and has followed me fully, I will bring into the land into which he went, and his descendants shall possess it.	spirit
0	Numbers 14:8	If the Lord delights in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land that flows with milk and honey.	food
0	Numbers 14:8-9	If the Lord delights in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land that flows with milk and honey. Only do not rebel against the Lord. And do not fear the people of the land, for they are bread for us. Their protection is removed from them, and the Lord is with us; do not fear them.&rdquo;	courage
0	Numbers 15:10	And you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, as a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the Lord.	wine
0	Numbers 15:32-36	While the people of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day. And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation. They put him in custody, because it had not been made clear what should be done to him. And the Lord said to Moses, &ldquo;The man shall be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.&rdquo; And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the Lord commanded Moses.	sabbath
0	Numbers 15:5	And you shall offer with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, a quarter of a hin of wine for the drink offering for each lamb.	wine
0	Numbers 16:30	But if the Lord creates something new, and the ground opens its mouth and swallows them up with all that belongs to them, and they go down alive into Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised the Lord.&rdquo;	ascension
0	Numbers 16:33	So they and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol, and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly.	hell
0	Numbers 17:8	On the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony, and behold, the staff of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds and produced blossoms, and it bore ripe almonds.	food
0	Numbers 18:19	All the holy contributions that the people of Israel present to the Lord I give to you, and to your sons and daughters with you, as a perpetual due. It is a covenant of salt forever before the Lord for you and for your offspring with you.&rdquo;	covenant
0	Numbers 18:21	&ldquo;To the Levites I have given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service that they do, their service in the tent of meeting,	giving
0	Numbers 18:26	&ldquo;Moreover, you shall speak and say to the Levites, &lsquo;When you take from the people of Israel the tithe that I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present a contribution from it to the Lord, a tithe of the tithe.	giving
0	Numbers 19:17	For the unclean they shall take some ashes of the burnt sin offering, and fresh water shall be added in a vessel.	purification
0	Numbers 19:19	And the clean person shall sprinkle it on the unclean on the third day and on the seventh day. Thus on the seventh day he shall cleanse him, and he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and at evening he shall be clean.	purification
0	Numbers 19:9	And a man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer and deposit them outside the camp in a clean place. And they shall be kept for the water for impurity for the congregation of the people of Israel; it is a sin offering.	purification
0	Numbers 20:1-21:35	And the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month, and the people stayed in Kadesh. And Miriam died there and was buried there. Now there was no water for the congregation. And they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the people quarreled with Moses and said, &ldquo;Would that we had perished when our brothers perished before the Lord! Why have you brought the assembly of the Lord into this wilderness, that we should die here, both we and our cattle? And why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? It is no place for grain or figs or vines or pomegranates, and there is no water to drink.&rdquo; ...	food
0	Numbers 23:19	God is not man, that he should lie, or a son of man, that he should change his mind. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not fulfill it?	almighty,blameless,god,hope,lying,nearness,promises,sadness
0	Numbers 24:1-25	When Balaam saw that it pleased the Lord to bless Israel, he did not go, as at other times, to look for omens, but set his face toward the wilderness. And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel camping tribe by tribe. And the Spirit of God came upon him, and he took up his discourse and said, &ldquo;The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, the oracle of the man whose eye is opened, the oracle of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down with his eyes uncovered: How lovely are your tents, O Jacob, your encampments, O Israel! ...	beauty,safety
0	Numbers 24:17	I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not near: a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel; it shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheth.	messiah
0	Numbers 27:1-23	Then drew near the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, from the clans of Manasseh the son of Joseph. The names of his daughters were: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. And they stood before Moses and before Eleazar the priest and before the chiefs and all the congregation, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, saying, &ldquo;Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against the Lord in the company of Korah, but died for his own sin. And he had no sons. Why should the name of our father be taken away from his clan because he had no son? Give to us a possession among our father's brothers.&rdquo; Moses brought their case before the Lord. ...	orphans
0	Numbers 27:18-23	So the Lord said to Moses, &ldquo;Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him. Make him stand before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation, and you shall commission him in their sight. You shall invest him with some of your authority, that all the congregation of the people of Israel may obey. And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before the Lord. At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he and all the people of Israel with him, the whole congregation.&rdquo; And Moses did as the Lord commanded him. He took Joshua and made him stand before Eleazar the priest and the whole congregation, ...	family
0	Numbers 28:10	This is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.	sabbath
0	Numbers 28:14	Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, a third of a hin for a ram, and a quarter of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year.	wine
0	Numbers 28:26	&ldquo;On the day of the firstfruits, when you offer a grain offering of new grain to the Lord at your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work,	pentecost
0	Numbers 28:7	Its drink offering shall be a quarter of a hin for each lamb. In the Holy Place you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to the Lord.	wine
0	Numbers 28:9	&ldquo;On the Sabbath day, two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering:	sabbath
0	Numbers 30:2	If a man vows a vow to the Lord, or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, he shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.	promises
0	Numbers 31:1-32:42	The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, &ldquo;Avenge the people of Israel on the Midianites. Afterward you shall be gathered to your people.&rdquo; So Moses spoke to the people, saying, &ldquo;Arm men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian to execute the Lord's vengeance on Midian. You shall send a thousand from each of the tribes of Israel to the war.&rdquo; So there were provided, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand from each tribe, twelve thousand armed for war. ...	idols
0	Numbers 31:23	Everything that can stand the fire, you shall pass through the fire, and it shall be clean. Nevertheless, it shall also be purified with the water for impurity. And whatever cannot stand the fire, you shall pass through the water.	purification
0	Numbers 32:23	But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the Lord, and be sure your sin will find you out.	sin
0	Numbers 6:24-26	The Lord bless you and keep you; the Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you; the Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.	blessing,children,gratitude,health,light,peace
0	Numbers 6:25	The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you;	grace
0	Numbers 6:25-26	The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you; the Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.	peace
0	Numbers 6:25-27	The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you; the Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. &ldquo;So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them.&rdquo;	healing
0	Numbers 6:26	The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.	peace
0	Numbers 6:3	He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar made from wine or strong drink and shall not drink any juice of grapes or eat grapes, fresh or dried.	wine
0	Numbers 7:89	And when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with the Lord, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; and it spoke to him.	covenant
0	Numbers 8:7	Thus you shall do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of purification upon them, and let them go with a razor over all their body, and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves.	purification
0	Numbers 9:1-14	And the Lord spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying, &ldquo;Let the people of Israel keep the Passover at its appointed time. On the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you shall keep it at its appointed time; according to all its statutes and all its rules you shall keep it.&rdquo; So Moses told the people of Israel that they should keep the Passover. And they kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so the people of Israel did. ...	dependence
0	Obadiah 1:15-16	For the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you; your deeds shall return on your own head. For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually; they shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been.	christmas
0	Obadiah 1:16	For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually; they shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been.	sin
0	Obadiah 1:3	The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, &ldquo;Who will bring me down to the ground?&rdquo;	pride
0	Philemon 1:16	No longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother&mdash;especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.	slavery
0	Philemon 1:25	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.	blessing
0	Philemon 1:3	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.	peace
0	Philemon 1:6	And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ.	evangelism
0	Philemon 1:7	For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you.	joy
0	Philippians 1:11	Filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.	fruitfulness,righteousness
0	Philippians 1:12-14	I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel, so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.	courage,persecution
0	Philippians 1:1-30	Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy, because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. ...	gratitude
0	Philippians 1:17	The former proclaim Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.	selfishness
0	Philippians 1:19	For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my deliverance,	comforter
0	Philippians 1:20	As it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.	body
0	Philippians 1:20-22	As it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.	body
0	Philippians 1:21	For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.	death
0	Philippians 1:23	I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.	body,rebirth
0	Philippians 1:23-24	I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.	death
0	Philippians 1:27	Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel,	courage,speaking
0	Philippians 1:28	And not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God.	courage,strength
0	Philippians 1:29	For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake,	persecution,suffering
0	Philippians 1:3	I thank my God in all my remembrance of you,	gratitude
0	Philippians 1:3-4	I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy,	friendship
0	Philippians 1:6	And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.	encouragement,faithfulness,fruitfulness,planning,promises,rebirth,salvation,transformation
0	Philippians 1:9	And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment,	wisdom
0	Philippians 1:9-11	And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.	mind
0	Philippians 2:10	So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth,	redeemer
0	Philippians 2:11	And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.	comforter,mediator,redeemer
0	Philippians 2:1-11	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, ...	community,serving
0	Philippians 2:1-13	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, ...	reconciliation
0	Philippians 2:12	Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,	blameless,fruitfulness,obedience,salvation
0	Philippians 2:1-2	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind.	joy
0	Philippians 2:12-16	Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.	blameless
0	Philippians 2:13	For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.	anger,blessing,contentment,rebirth,righteousness
0	Philippians 2:1-3	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.	kingdom
0	Philippians 2:1-30	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, ...	community,safety
0	Philippians 2:14	Do all things without grumbling or questioning,	anger
0	Philippians 2:14-16	Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.	holiness,light,the-word
0	Philippians 2:15	That you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world,	beauty,light,transformation
0	Philippians 2:15-16	That you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.	fruitfulness,light
0	Philippians 2:17	Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all.	sacrifice
0	Philippians 2:2	Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind.	love,mind
0	Philippians 2:21	For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.	selfishness
0	Philippians 2:3	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.	community,humility,neighbor,pride,relationships
0	Philippians 2:3-11	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. ...	humility
0	Philippians 2:3-15	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. ...	christmas
0	Philippians 2:3-16	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. ...	community
0	Philippians 2:3-4	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.	humility,neighbor,selfishness,serving
0	Philippians 2:3-5	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,	mind
0	Philippians 2:3-8	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. ...	kingdom
0	Philippians 2:4	Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.	sacrifice,selfishness,serving
0	Philippians 2:4-7	Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.	community
0	Philippians 2:5	Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,	holiness,humility,jesus,mind,nearness,thoughts,transformation
0	Philippians 2:5-11	Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, ...	easter
0	Philippians 2:5-7	Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.	jesus
0	Philippians 2:5-8	Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.	humility,jesus,sacrifice
0	Philippians 2:6	Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,	clothing
0	Philippians 2:8	And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.	easter,humility,obedience
0	Philippians 2:9-11	Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.	kingdom
0	Philippians 3:10	That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,	resurrection,suffering
0	Philippians 3:10-12	That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.	easter,resurrection
0	Philippians 3:12-14	Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.	beauty
0	Philippians 3:13-14	Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.	hope,sadness
0	Philippians 3:14	I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.	calling,reward
0	Philippians 3:1-4:23	Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you. Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh&mdash; though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more: circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; ...	addiction
0	Philippians 3:18-19	For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things.	sin
0	Philippians 3:18-20	For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,	food
0	Philippians 3:18-21	For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.	body
0	Philippians 3:20	But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,	gentleness,heaven
0	Philippians 3:20-21	But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.	death,eternal-life,health,heaven,resurrection,second-coming
0	Philippians 3:21	Who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.	body,eternal-life,heaven
0	Philippians 3:6	As to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness under the law, blameless.	persecution
0	Philippians 3:7-8	But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ	contentment,materialism
0	Philippians 3:9	And be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith&mdash;	righteousness
0	Philippians 4:10-13	I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me.	contentment
0	Philippians 4:11	Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.	contentment
0	Philippians 4:11-12	Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.	contentment
0	Philippians 4:11-13	Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me.	contentment,debt,greed,money
0	Philippians 4:12	I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.	contentment,humility
0	Philippians 4:12-13	I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me.	gratitude
0	Philippians 4:1-23	Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women, who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand; ...	peace,poverty,worrying
0	Philippians 4:13	I can do all things through him who strengthens me.	body,conversion,courage,encouragement,faith,fear,god,goodness,gratitude,health,jesus,learning,life,overcoming,promises,protection,sadness,safety,seeking,self-control,serving,strength,thoughts,weakness,work
0	Philippians 4:18	I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.	sacrifice
0	Philippians 4:19	And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.	blessing,children,contentment,debt,encouragement,faith,giving,god,healing,health,jesus,life,money,overcoming,promises,sadness,safety,selfishness,serving,sickness,trust,understanding,weakness,worrying
0	Philippians 4:20	To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.	humility,praise
0	Philippians 4:23	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.	blessing
0	Philippians 4:3	Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women, who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.	debt
0	Philippians 4:4	Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice.	freedom,joy
0	Philippians 4:4-14	Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand; do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. ...	addiction
0	Philippians 4:4-9	Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand; do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. ...	thoughts
0	Philippians 4:5	Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand;	gentleness,mind,second-coming
0	Philippians 4:6	Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.	fear,generosity,goodness,gratitude,greed,learning,money,overcoming,patience,peace,planning,prayer,seeking,thoughts,weakness,worrying
0	Philippians 4:6-7	Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.	calling,debt,encouragement,fear,gratitude,healing,health,mind,peace,prayer,rest,sickness,thoughts,trust,worrying
0	Philippians 4:6-8	Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.	gratitude,mind
0	Philippians 4:6-9	Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me&mdash;practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.	encouragement
0	Philippians 4:7	And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.	blessing,fear,heart,mind,peace,rest,sadness,thoughts,understanding
0	Philippians 4:8	Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.	beauty,body,conversion,encouragement,goodness,gossip,holiness,honesty,listening,mind,righteousness,sadness,self-control,thoughts,truth
0	Philippians 4:8-9	Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me&mdash;practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.	honesty,thoughts
0	Philippians 4:9	What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me&mdash;practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.	learning,listening,peace,promises
0	Proverbs 1:1-33	The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel: To know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight, to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity; to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth&mdash; Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance, ...	greed,safety
0	Proverbs 1:19	Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain; it takes away the life of its possessors.	greed,money
0	Proverbs 1:24-26	Because I have called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded, because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when terror strikes you,	calling
0	Proverbs 1:24-30	Because I have called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded, because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when terror strikes you, when terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you. Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently but will not find me. ...	punishment
0	Proverbs 1:33	But whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease, without dread of disaster.&rdquo;	listening,rest,safety
0	Proverbs 1:5	Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance,	learning,listening
0	Proverbs 1:7	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction.	awe,fear,learning,seeking,soul,understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 1:8	Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching,	children,family
0	Proverbs 1:8-9	Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck.	children,learning
0	Proverbs 10:1	The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother.	children,learning
0	Proverbs 10:11	The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.	speaking
0	Proverbs 10:1-11:31	The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother. Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death. The Lord does not let the righteous go hungry, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked. A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. He who gathers in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who brings shame. ...	poverty,selfishness
0	Proverbs 10:12	Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses.	evil,forgiveness,love
0	Proverbs 10:16	The wage of the righteous leads to life, the gain of the wicked to sin.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 10:17	Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who rejects reproof leads others astray.	learning,listening
0	Proverbs 10:18	The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever utters slander is a fool.	gossip,lying
0	Proverbs 10:19	When words are many, transgression is not lacking, but whoever restrains his lips is prudent.	gossip,speaking
0	Proverbs 10:2	Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 10:22	The blessing of the Lord makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.	blessing,contentment,money
0	Proverbs 10:22-25	The blessing of the Lord makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it. Doing wrong is like a joke to a fool, but wisdom is pleasure to a man of understanding. What the wicked dreads will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted. When the tempest passes, the wicked is no more, but the righteous is established forever.	worrying
0	Proverbs 10:23	Doing wrong is like a joke to a fool, but wisdom is pleasure to a man of understanding.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 10:24	What the wicked dreads will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.	desires
0	Proverbs 10:24-30	What the wicked dreads will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted. When the tempest passes, the wicked is no more, but the righteous is established forever. Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him. The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short. The hope of the righteous brings joy, but the expectation of the wicked will perish. ...	courage
0	Proverbs 10:27	The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short.	safety
0	Proverbs 10:28	The hope of the righteous brings joy, but the expectation of the wicked will perish.	hope,joy
0	Proverbs 10:31	The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.	speaking
0	Proverbs 10:32	The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked, what is perverse.	speaking,truth
0	Proverbs 10:4	A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich.	debt,money,work
0	Proverbs 10:5	He who gathers in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who brings shame.	harvest,work
0	Proverbs 10:8	The wise of heart will receive commandments, but a babbling fool will come to ruin.	heart,obedience,wisdom
0	Proverbs 10:9	Whoever walks in integrity walks securely, but he who makes his ways crooked will be found out.	honesty,lying,safety
0	Proverbs 11:1	A false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but a just weight is his delight.	honesty,lying,money
0	Proverbs 11:12	Whoever belittles his neighbor lacks sense, but a man of understanding remains silent.	gossip,pride
0	Proverbs 11:13	Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps a thing covered.	friendship,gossip,reliability
0	Proverbs 11:14	Where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors there is safety.	listening,planning,safety
0	Proverbs 11:14-23	Where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors there is safety. Whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer harm, but he who hates striking hands in pledge is secure. A gracious woman gets honor, and violent men get riches. A man who is kind benefits himself, but a cruel man hurts himself. The wicked earns deceptive wages, but one who sows righteousness gets a sure reward. ...	addiction
0	Proverbs 11:15	Whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer harm, but he who hates striking hands in pledge is secure.	debt
0	Proverbs 11:17	A man who is kind benefits himself, but a cruel man hurts himself.	mercy,safety
0	Proverbs 11:18	The wicked earns deceptive wages, but one who sows righteousness gets a sure reward.	reward
0	Proverbs 11:19	Whoever is steadfast in righteousness will live, but he who pursues evil will die.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 11:2	When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom.	humility,pride,punishment,wisdom
0	Proverbs 11:20	Those of crooked heart are an abomination to the Lord, but those of blameless ways are his delight.	heart
0	Proverbs 11:21	Be assured, an evil person will not go unpunished, but the offspring of the righteous will be delivered.	punishment
0	Proverbs 11:24	One gives freely, yet grows all the richer; another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want.	generosity,giving,greed
0	Proverbs 11:24-25	One gives freely, yet grows all the richer; another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want. Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and one who waters will himself be watered.	compassion,generosity,giving
0	Proverbs 11:25	Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and one who waters will himself be watered.	food,generosity,giving,selfishness,serving
0	Proverbs 11:26	The people curse him who holds back grain, but a blessing is on the head of him who sells it.	selfishness
0	Proverbs 11:28	Whoever trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.	greed,materialism,money,trust
0	Proverbs 11:29	Whoever troubles his own household will inherit the wind, and the fool will be servant to the wise of heart.	family
0	Proverbs 11:3	The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.	honesty,reliability
0	Proverbs 11:30	The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and whoever captures souls is wise.	evangelism,wisdom
0	Proverbs 11:31	If the righteous is repaid on earth, how much more the wicked and the sinner!	judgment
0	Proverbs 11:4	Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.	materialism,money,punishment
0	Proverbs 11:5	The righteousness of the blameless keeps his way straight, but the wicked falls by his own wickedness.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 11:6	The righteousness of the upright delivers them, but the treacherous are taken captive by their lust.	greed,righteousness
0	Proverbs 11:9	With his mouth the godless man would destroy his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous are delivered.	gossip,speaking
0	Proverbs 12:1	Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid.	learning,listening
0	Proverbs 12:10	Whoever is righteous has regard for the life of his beast, but the mercy of the wicked is cruel.	almighty,mercy
0	Proverbs 12:11	Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits lacks sense.	work
0	Proverbs 12:12	Whoever is wicked covets the spoil of evildoers, but the root of the righteous bears fruit.	materialism
0	Proverbs 12:1-28	Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid. A good man obtains favor from the Lord, but a man of evil devices he condemns. No one is established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous will never be moved. An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones. The thoughts of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful. ...	understanding
0	Proverbs 12:13	An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous escapes from trouble.	speaking
0	Proverbs 12:14	From the fruit of his mouth a man is satisfied with good, and the work of a man's hand comes back to him.	blessing,speaking
0	Proverbs 12:15	The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice.	humility,listening,wisdom
0	Proverbs 12:16	The vexation of a fool is known at once, but the prudent ignores an insult.	anger,self-control
0	Proverbs 12:17	Whoever speaks the truth gives honest evidence, but a false witness utters deceit.	honesty,truth
0	Proverbs 12:17-19	Whoever speaks the truth gives honest evidence, but a false witness utters deceit. There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment.	speaking
0	Proverbs 12:18	There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.	health,transformation
0	Proverbs 12:19	Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment.	lying,truth
0	Proverbs 12:20	Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy.	peace
0	Proverbs 12:21	No ill befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble.	protection
0	Proverbs 12:22	Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but those who act faithfully are his delight.	gossip,honesty,lying,truth
0	Proverbs 12:23	A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims folly.	speaking
0	Proverbs 12:24	The hand of the diligent will rule, while the slothful will be put to forced labor.	slavery,work
0	Proverbs 12:25	Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down, but a good word makes him glad.	fear,health,overcoming,sadness,worrying
0	Proverbs 12:26	One who is righteous is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.	friendship
0	Proverbs 12:28	In the path of righteousness is life, and in its pathway there is no death.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 12:4	An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones.	family,marriage,relationships
0	Proverbs 12:5	The thoughts of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.	lying,thoughts
0	Proverbs 12:6	The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright delivers them.	speaking
0	Proverbs 13:1	A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke.	listening,wisdom
0	Proverbs 13:10	By insolence comes nothing but strife, but with those who take advice is wisdom.	humility,pride,wisdom
0	Proverbs 13:11	Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it.	debt,greed,money,planning,work
0	Proverbs 13:12	Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life.	health,hope,sickness
0	Proverbs 13:1-20:30	A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. From the fruit of his mouth a man eats what is good, but the desire of the treacherous is for violence. Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life; he who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, while the soul of the diligent is richly supplied. The righteous hates falsehood, but the wicked brings shame and disgrace. ...	punishment
0	Proverbs 13:14	The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death.	temptation
0	Proverbs 13:15	Good sense wins favor, but the way of the treacherous is their ruin.	sin
0	Proverbs 13:15-22	Good sense wins favor, but the way of the treacherous is their ruin. In everything the prudent acts with knowledge, but a fool flaunts his folly. A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing. Poverty and disgrace come to him who ignores instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is honored. A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but to turn away from evil is an abomination to fools. ...	safety
0	Proverbs 13:16	In everything the prudent acts with knowledge, but a fool flaunts his folly.	planning
0	Proverbs 13:19-20	A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but to turn away from evil is an abomination to fools. Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm.	soul
0	Proverbs 13:20	Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm.	friendship,punishment,relationships,wisdom
0	Proverbs 13:22	A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the sinner's wealth is laid up for the righteous.	children,debt,family,money,work
0	Proverbs 13:24	Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him.	children,punishment
0	Proverbs 13:3	Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life; he who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.	gossip,life,self-control,speaking
0	Proverbs 13:4	The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, while the soul of the diligent is richly supplied.	work
0	Proverbs 13:5	The righteous hates falsehood, but the wicked brings shame and disgrace.	lying
0	Proverbs 13:6	Righteousness guards him whose way is blameless, but sin overthrows the wicked.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 13:8-18	The ransom of a man's life is his wealth, but a poor man hears no threat. The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked will be put out. By insolence comes nothing but strife, but with those who take advice is wisdom. Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it. Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 13:9	The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked will be put out.	light
0	Proverbs 14:1	The wisest of women builds her house, but folly with her own hands tears it down.	family
0	Proverbs 14:12-15	There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief. The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways. The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps.	christmas
0	Proverbs 14:12-34	There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief. The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways. The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps. One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless. ...	addiction
0	Proverbs 14:14	The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways.	contentment
0	Proverbs 14:14-35	The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways. The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps. One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless. A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated. The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 14:16	One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless.	safety,wisdom
0	Proverbs 14:16-17	One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless. A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated.	anger
0	Proverbs 14:17	A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated.	anger
0	Proverbs 14:20-16:3	The poor is disliked even by his neighbor, but the rich has many friends. Whoever despises his neighbor is a sinner, but blessed is he who is generous to the poor. Do they not go astray who devise evil? Those who devise good meet steadfast love and faithfulness. In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty. The crown of the wise is their wealth, but the folly of fools brings folly. ...	greed
0	Proverbs 14:21	Whoever despises his neighbor is a sinner, but blessed is he who is generous to the poor.	compassion,generosity,mercy
0	Proverbs 14:21-28	Whoever despises his neighbor is a sinner, but blessed is he who is generous to the poor. Do they not go astray who devise evil? Those who devise good meet steadfast love and faithfulness. In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty. The crown of the wise is their wealth, but the folly of fools brings folly. A truthful witness saves lives, but one who breathes out lies is deceitful. ...	family
0	Proverbs 14:23	In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty.	debt,money,work
0	Proverbs 14:25	A truthful witness saves lives, but one who breathes out lies is deceitful.	lying,speaking
0	Proverbs 14:26	In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and his children will have a refuge.	protection,safety
0	Proverbs 14:27	The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death.	awe,fear,life,temptation
0	Proverbs 14:29	Whoever is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.	anger,overcoming,patience,understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 14:3	By the mouth of a fool comes a rod for his back, but the lips of the wise will preserve them.	pride,speaking
0	Proverbs 14:30	A tranquil heart gives life to the flesh, but envy makes the bones rot.	health,heart,mind
0	Proverbs 14:31	Whoever oppresses a poor man insults his Maker, but he who is generous to the needy honors him.	greed,mercy
0	Proverbs 14:32	The wicked is overthrown through his evildoing, but the righteous finds refuge in his death.	death
0	Proverbs 14:33	Wisdom rests in the heart of a man of understanding, but it makes itself known even in the midst of fools.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 14:34	Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.	righteousness
0	Proverbs 14:4	Where there are no oxen, the manger is clean, but abundant crops come by the strength of the ox.	harvest
0	Proverbs 14:5	A faithful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies.	honesty,lying
0	Proverbs 14:6-7	A scoffer seeks wisdom in vain, but knowledge is easy for a man of understanding. Leave the presence of a fool, for there you do not meet words of knowledge.	friendship
0	Proverbs 14:8	The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deceiving.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 15:1	A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.	anger,forgiveness,gentleness,gossip,speaking
0	Proverbs 15:11	Sheol and Abaddon lie open before the Lord; how much more the hearts of the children of man!	hell
0	Proverbs 15:12	A scoffer does not like to be reproved; he will not go to the wise.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 15:13	A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed.	contentment
0	Proverbs 15:13-14	A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed. The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.	sadness
0	Proverbs 15:14	The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.	seeking
0	Proverbs 15:15	All the days of the afflicted are evil, but the cheerful of heart has a continual feast.	health
0	Proverbs 15:16	Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble with it.	contentment,poverty
0	Proverbs 15:17	Better is a dinner of herbs where love is than a fattened ox and hatred with it.	family,food,love
0	Proverbs 15:18	A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger quiets contention.	anger,patience
0	Proverbs 15:2	The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouths of fools pour out folly.	planning,speaking
0	Proverbs 15:20	A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.	children,family
0	Proverbs 15:22	Without counsel plans fail, but with many advisers they succeed.	community,debt,friendship,planning
0	Proverbs 15:23	To make an apt answer is a joy to a man, and a word in season, how good it is!	joy,speaking
0	Proverbs 15:24	The path of life leads upward for the prudent, that he may turn away from Sheol beneath.	hell
0	Proverbs 15:25	The Lord tears down the house of the proud but maintains the widow's boundaries.	pride,widows
0	Proverbs 15:26	The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord, but gracious words are pure.	speaking
0	Proverbs 15:27	Whoever is greedy for unjust gain troubles his own household, but he who hates bribes will live.	family,greed,money
0	Proverbs 15:28	The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.	speaking,thoughts
0	Proverbs 15:29	The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.	prayer
0	Proverbs 15:30	The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones.	contentment
0	Proverbs 15:31	The ear that listens to life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise.	listening
0	Proverbs 15:33	The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom, and humility comes before honor.	humility,wisdom
0	Proverbs 15:4	A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit.	gentleness,gossip,speaking
0	Proverbs 15:5	A fool despises his father's instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is prudent.	children,learning,mind
0	Proverbs 15:6-16:20	In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked. The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so the hearts of fools. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. The way of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but he loves him who pursues righteousness. There is severe discipline for him who forsakes the way; whoever hates reproof will die. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 15:7	The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so the hearts of fools.	speaking
0	Proverbs 16:1	The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord.	heart,planning
0	Proverbs 16:11	A just balance and scales are the Lord's; all the weights in the bag are his work.	honesty
0	Proverbs 16:13	Righteous lips are the delight of a king, and he loves him who speaks what is right.	honesty,truth
0	Proverbs 16:14	A king's wrath is a messenger of death, and a wise man will appease it.	anger
0	Proverbs 16:16	How much better to get wisdom than gold! To get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.	materialism,money,understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 16:17	The highway of the upright turns aside from evil; whoever guards his way preserves his life.	holiness
0	Proverbs 16:18	Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.	pride
0	Proverbs 16:18-19	Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud.	humility,pride
0	Proverbs 16:19	It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud.	humility,pride
0	Proverbs 16:2	All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the spirit.	planning
0	Proverbs 16:20	Whoever gives thought to the word will discover good, and blessed is he who trusts in the Lord.	blessing,listening,trust
0	Proverbs 16:21	The wise of heart is called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness.	learning
0	Proverbs 16:22	Good sense is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the instruction of fools is folly.	understanding
0	Proverbs 16:23	The heart of the wise makes his speech judicious and adds persuasiveness to his lips.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 16:24	Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the body.	food,gentleness,healing,health,sickness,speaking
0	Proverbs 16:27	A worthless man plots evil, and his speech is like a scorching fire.	gossip
0	Proverbs 16:28	A dishonest man spreads strife, and a whisperer separates close friends.	friendship,gossip,honesty
0	Proverbs 16:29	A man of violence entices his neighbor and leads him in a way that is not good.	anger
0	Proverbs 16:3	Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established.	blessing,planning,thoughts,trust,work
0	Proverbs 16:32	Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.	anger,patience,peace,self-control
0	Proverbs 16:4	The Lord has made everything for its purpose, even the wicked for the day of trouble.	evil
0	Proverbs 16:5	Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord; be assured, he will not go unpunished.	pride
0	Proverbs 16:6	By steadfast love and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of the Lord one turns away from evil.	truth
0	Proverbs 16:7	When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.	blessing,courage,fear,friendship,god,obedience,peace
0	Proverbs 16:8	Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice.	contentment,honesty,money
0	Proverbs 16:9	The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps.	kingdom,money,planning,self-control
0	Proverbs 17:1	Better is a dry morsel with quiet than a house full of feasting with strife.	contentment,peace,rest
0	Proverbs 17:10	A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 17:1-28	Better is a dry morsel with quiet than a house full of feasting with strife. A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers. The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and the Lord tests hearts. An evildoer listens to wicked lips, and a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue. Whoever mocks the poor insults his Maker; he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished. ...	overcoming
0	Proverbs 17:13	If anyone returns evil for good, evil will not depart from his house.	evil
0	Proverbs 17:15	He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous are both alike an abomination to the Lord.	evil
0	Proverbs 17:16-26	Why should a fool have money in his hand to buy wisdom when he has no sense? A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. One who lacks sense gives a pledge and puts up security in the presence of his neighbor. Whoever loves transgression loves strife; he who makes his door high seeks destruction. A man of crooked heart does not discover good, and one with a dishonest tongue falls into calamity. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 17:17	A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.	community,friendship,love,relationships
0	Proverbs 17:18	One who lacks sense gives a pledge and puts up security in the presence of his neighbor.	debt
0	Proverbs 17:2	A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers.	mind
0	Proverbs 17:22	A joyful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.	contentment,healing,health,heart,joy,listening,reliability,sickness,thoughts,worrying
0	Proverbs 17:27	Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding.	anger,overcoming,speaking,understanding
0	Proverbs 17:27-28	Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; when he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 17:28	Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; when he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent.	listening,mind,speaking
0	Proverbs 17:3	The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and the Lord tests hearts.	heart
0	Proverbs 17:4	An evildoer listens to wicked lips, and a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.	gossip,lying
0	Proverbs 17:5	Whoever mocks the poor insults his Maker; he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished.	poverty
0	Proverbs 17:6	Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers.	children
0	Proverbs 17:6-18	Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers. Fine speech is not becoming to a fool; still less is false speech to a prince. A bribe is like a magic stone in the eyes of the one who gives it; wherever he turns he prospers. Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends. A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. ...	family
0	Proverbs 17:7	Fine speech is not becoming to a fool; still less is false speech to a prince.	lying
0	Proverbs 17:9	Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends.	forgiveness,friendship,gossip,love,speaking
0	Proverbs 18:1	Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire; he breaks out against all sound judgment.	selfishness,wisdom
0	Proverbs 18:10	The name of the Lord is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe.	encouragement,hope,life,protection,safety,strength
0	Proverbs 18:11	A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his imagination.	money
0	Proverbs 18:12	Before destruction a man's heart is haughty, but humility comes before honor.	humility,pride
0	Proverbs 18:1-24	Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire; he breaks out against all sound judgment. A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion. When wickedness comes, contempt comes also, and with dishonor comes disgrace. The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; the fountain of wisdom is a bubbling brook. It is not good to be partial to the wicked or to deprive the righteous of justice. ...	friendship
0	Proverbs 18:13	If one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame.	listening,speaking
0	Proverbs 18:14	A man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit who can bear?	health,spirit
0	Proverbs 18:15	An intelligent heart acquires knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge.	learning,wisdom
0	Proverbs 18:17	The one who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him.	selfishness
0	Proverbs 18:19	A brother offended is more unyielding than a strong city, and quarreling is like the bars of a castle.	family
0	Proverbs 18:2	A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion.	listening,understanding
0	Proverbs 18:21	Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits.	confession,gossip,life,self-control,speaking
0	Proverbs 18:22	He who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord.	love,marriage,relationships,seeking
0	Proverbs 18:23-19:22	The poor use entreaties, but the rich answer roughly. A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool. Desire without knowledge is not good, and whoever makes haste with his feet misses his way. When a man's folly brings his way to ruin, his heart rages against the Lord. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 18:24	A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.	family,friendship,honesty,orphans,relationships
0	Proverbs 18:6	A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating.	speaking
0	Proverbs 18:6-7	A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating. A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul.	gossip
0	Proverbs 18:7	A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul.	speaking
0	Proverbs 18:7-8	A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul. The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.	gossip
0	Proverbs 18:8	The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.	gossip
0	Proverbs 18:9	Whoever is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys.	listening,work
0	Proverbs 19:1	Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool.	honesty,speaking
0	Proverbs 19:11	Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.	anger,honesty
0	Proverbs 19:14	House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the Lord.	marriage,relationships
0	Proverbs 19:16	Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises his ways will die.	obedience
0	Proverbs 19:17	Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the Lord, and he will repay him for his deed.	compassion,generosity,giving,harvest,serving
0	Proverbs 19:19	A man of great wrath will pay the penalty, for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again.	anger
0	Proverbs 19:2	Desire without knowledge is not good, and whoever makes haste with his feet misses his way.	planning
0	Proverbs 19:20	Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future.	friendship,listening,wisdom
0	Proverbs 19:21	Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand.	god,mind,planning
0	Proverbs 19:21-22	Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand. What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar.	planning
0	Proverbs 19:22	What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar.	goodness,lying,reliability
0	Proverbs 19:23	The fear of the Lord leads to life, and whoever has it rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm.	contentment,fear,protection,rest,safety
0	Proverbs 19:27	Cease to hear instruction, my son, and you will stray from the words of knowledge.	listening
0	Proverbs 19:28	A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.	speaking
0	Proverbs 19:4	Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend.	poverty
0	Proverbs 19:5	A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will not escape.	gossip,honesty,lying
0	Proverbs 19:8	Whoever gets sense loves his own soul; he who keeps understanding will discover good.	mind,wisdom
0	Proverbs 19:9	A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will perish.	gossip,lying
0	Proverbs 2:11-16	Discretion will watch over you, understanding will guard you, delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech, who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked, and who are devious in their ways. ...	understanding
0	Proverbs 2:1-22	My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding; yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. ...	kingdom
0	Proverbs 2:1-3:35	My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding; yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. ...	beauty,worrying
0	Proverbs 2:1-5	My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding; yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God.	listening
0	Proverbs 2:16	So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words,	temptation
0	Proverbs 2:17	Who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God;	covenant
0	Proverbs 2:2	Making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding;	listening
0	Proverbs 2:20-21	So you will walk in the way of the good and keep to the paths of the righteous. For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,	honesty
0	Proverbs 2:2-5	Making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding; yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God.	understanding
0	Proverbs 2:3	Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding,	the-word
0	Proverbs 2:5-20	Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding; he stores up sound wisdom for the upright; he is a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path; ...	righteousness
0	Proverbs 2:6	For the Lord gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding;	understanding,wisdom,the-word
0	Proverbs 2:9	Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path;	goodness,understanding
0	Proverbs 20:1	Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, and whoever is led astray by it is not wise.	addiction,dependence,health,self-control,wine
0	Proverbs 20:10	Unequal weights and unequal measures are both alike an abomination to the Lord.	honesty
0	Proverbs 20:11	Even a child makes himself known by his acts, by whether his conduct is pure and upright.	children,learning
0	Proverbs 20:13	Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes, and you will have plenty of bread.	poverty
0	Proverbs 20:15	There is gold and abundance of costly stones, but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.	gentleness
0	Proverbs 20:16-30	Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts up security for foreigners. Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel. Plans are established by counsel; by wise guidance wage war. Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with a simple babbler. If one curses his father or his mother, his lamp will be put out in utter darkness. ...	addiction
0	Proverbs 20:17	Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel.	bread,lying
0	Proverbs 20:18	Plans are established by counsel; by wise guidance wage war.	planning
0	Proverbs 20:19	Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with a simple babbler.	gossip
0	Proverbs 20:21	An inheritance gained hastily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end.	greed,materialism
0	Proverbs 20:22	Do not say, &ldquo;I will repay evil&rdquo;; wait for the Lord, and he will deliver you.	evil
0	Proverbs 20:23	Unequal weights are an abomination to the Lord, and false scales are not good.	honesty
0	Proverbs 20:25	It is a snare to say rashly, &ldquo;It is holy,&rdquo; and to reflect only after making vows.	holiness
0	Proverbs 20:27	The spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord, searching all his innermost parts.	light
0	Proverbs 20:28	Steadfast love and faithfulness preserve the king, and by steadfast love his throne is upheld.	truth
0	Proverbs 20:2-9	The terror of a king is like the growling of a lion; whoever provokes him to anger forfeits his life. It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling. The sluggard does not plow in the autumn; he will seek at harvest and have nothing. The purpose in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but a faithful man who can find? ...	family
0	Proverbs 20:3	It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling.	anger,peace
0	Proverbs 20:30	Blows that wound cleanse away evil; strokes make clean the innermost parts.	punishment
0	Proverbs 20:4	The sluggard does not plow in the autumn; he will seek at harvest and have nothing.	harvest,poverty
0	Proverbs 20:5	The purpose in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.	understanding
0	Proverbs 20:6	Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but a faithful man who can find?	faithfulness,friendship
0	Proverbs 20:6-7	Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but a faithful man who can find? The righteous who walks in his integrity&mdash; blessed are his children after him!	marriage
0	Proverbs 20:7	The righteous who walks in his integrity&mdash; blessed are his children after him!	children,honesty
0	Proverbs 21:11	When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; when a wise man is instructed, he gains knowledge.	punishment
0	Proverbs 21:13	Whoever closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself call out and not be answered.	generosity,selfishness
0	Proverbs 21:1-31	The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord; he turns it wherever he will. Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the heart. To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice. Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin. The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty. ...	selfishness
0	Proverbs 21:13-22:29	Whoever closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself call out and not be answered. A gift in secret averts anger, and a concealed bribe, strong wrath. When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous but terror to evildoers. One who wanders from the way of good sense will rest in the assembly of the dead. Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich. ...	poverty
0	Proverbs 21:15	When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous but terror to evildoers.	evil,selfishness
0	Proverbs 21:17	Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich.	wine
0	Proverbs 21:17-24	Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich. The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, and the traitor for the upright. It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman. Precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it. Whoever pursues righteousness and kindness will find life, righteousness, and honor. ...	materialism
0	Proverbs 21:19	It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman.	anger,marriage
0	Proverbs 21:2	Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the heart.	heart
0	Proverbs 21:20	Precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it.	debt,food,money,planning,wisdom,work
0	Proverbs 21:21	Whoever pursues righteousness and kindness will find life, righteousness, and honor.	life,mercy
0	Proverbs 21:23	Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble.	gossip,listening,self-control,speaking
0	Proverbs 21:24	&ldquo;Scoffer&rdquo; is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with arrogant pride.	pride
0	Proverbs 21:26	All day long he craves and craves, but the righteous gives and does not hold back.	giving,greed
0	Proverbs 21:29-31	A wicked man puts on a bold face, but the upright gives thought to his ways. No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the Lord. The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the Lord.	kingdom
0	Proverbs 21:3	To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.	honesty,orphans,righteousness,sacrifice
0	Proverbs 21:31	The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the Lord.	safety
0	Proverbs 21:4	Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin.	pride
0	Proverbs 21:5	The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty.	debt,greed,honesty,money,planning,poverty,work
0	Proverbs 21:6	The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death.	lying
0	Proverbs 21:9	It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife.	marriage
0	Proverbs 22:1	A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold.	greed,materialism,money
0	Proverbs 22:11	He who loves purity of heart, and whose speech is gracious, will have the king as his friend.	friendship,heart
0	Proverbs 22:1-25:28	A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold. The rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the maker of them all. The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. The reward for humility and fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life. Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked; whoever guards his soul will keep far from them. ...	addiction
0	Proverbs 22:1-29	A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold. The rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the maker of them all. The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. The reward for humility and fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life. Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked; whoever guards his soul will keep far from them. ...	debt,honesty,overcoming
0	Proverbs 22:13-17	The sluggard says, &ldquo;There is a lion outside! I shall be killed in the streets!&rdquo; The mouth of forbidden women is a deep pit; he with whom the Lord is angry will fall into it. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty. Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge,	safety
0	Proverbs 22:15	Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.	children,punishment,sin
0	Proverbs 22:15-23:24	Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty. Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge, for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips. That your trust may be in the Lord, I have made them known to you today, even to you. ...	family
0	Proverbs 22:16	Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty.	money,planning,slavery
0	Proverbs 22:16-17	Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty. Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge,	greed
0	Proverbs 22:2	The rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the maker of them all.	poverty
0	Proverbs 22:24	Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man,	anger
0	Proverbs 22:24-25	Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man, lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.	anger,friendship
0	Proverbs 22:24-27	Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man, lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare. Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts. If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?	friendship
0	Proverbs 22:26	Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts.	debt
0	Proverbs 22:26-27	Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts. If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?	debt,money
0	Proverbs 22:29	Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure men.	work
0	Proverbs 22:3	The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it.	planning,safety
0	Proverbs 22:4	The reward for humility and fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life.	humility
0	Proverbs 22:6	Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it.	blameless,children,family,learning,promises,relationships
0	Proverbs 22:7	The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender.	contentment,debt,freedom,greed,money,poverty,slavery,work,world
0	Proverbs 22:9	Whoever has a bountiful eye will be blessed, for he shares his bread with the poor.	generosity,giving,greed,harvest,materialism,money
0	Proverbs 23:10	Do not move an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless,	orphans
0	Proverbs 23:10-11	Do not move an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless, for their Redeemer is strong; he will plead their cause against you.	orphans
0	Proverbs 23:12	Apply your heart to instruction and your ear to words of knowledge.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 23:13-14	Do not withhold discipline from a child; if you strike him with a rod, he will not die. If you strike him with the rod, you will save his soul from Sheol.	children
0	Proverbs 23:14	If you strike him with the rod, you will save his soul from Sheol.	hell
0	Proverbs 23:18	Surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.	hope
0	Proverbs 23:2	And put a knife to your throat if you are given to appetite.	food,planning
0	Proverbs 23:20	Be not among drunkards or among gluttonous eaters of meat,	addiction
0	Proverbs 23:20-21	Be not among drunkards or among gluttonous eaters of meat, for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, and slumber will clothe them with rags.	food,health,self-control
0	Proverbs 23:22	Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old.	learning
0	Proverbs 23:24	The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice; he who fathers a wise son will be glad in him.	joy
0	Proverbs 23:29-32	Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? Those who tarry long over wine; those who go to try mixed wine. Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly. In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.	wine
0	Proverbs 23:29-35	Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? Those who tarry long over wine; those who go to try mixed wine. Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly. In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder. Your eyes will see strange things, and your heart utter perverse things. ...	wine
0	Proverbs 23:31	Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly.	wine
0	Proverbs 23:4	Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist.	greed,money,planning
0	Proverbs 23:4-5	Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist. When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.	money
0	Proverbs 23:5	When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.	materialism
0	Proverbs 23:7	For he is like one who is inwardly calculating. &ldquo;Eat and drink!&rdquo; he says to you, but his heart is not with you.	thoughts
0	Proverbs 24:10	If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small.	courage,weakness
0	Proverbs 24:11	Rescue those who are being taken away to death; hold back those who are stumbling to the slaughter.	evangelism,orphans
0	Proverbs 24:12	If you say, &ldquo;Behold, we did not know this,&rdquo; does not he who weighs the heart perceive it? Does not he who keeps watch over your soul know it, and will he not repay man according to his work?	judgment,selfishness
0	Proverbs 24:13	My son, eat honey, for it is good, and the drippings of the honeycomb are sweet to your taste.	food
0	Proverbs 24:1-34	Be not envious of evil men, nor desire to be with them, for their hearts devise violence, and their lips talk of trouble. By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established; by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. A wise man is full of strength, and a man of knowledge enhances his might, ...	safety
0	Proverbs 24:14	Know that wisdom is such to your soul; if you find it, there will be a future, and your hope will not be cut off.	hope,seeking,wisdom
0	Proverbs 24:16	For the righteous falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in times of calamity.	learning
0	Proverbs 24:2	For their hearts devise violence, and their lips talk of trouble.	speaking
0	Proverbs 24:26	Whoever gives an honest answer kisses the lips.	honesty
0	Proverbs 24:27	Prepare your work outside; get everything ready for yourself in the field, and after that build your house.	money,planning,work
0	Proverbs 24:28	Be not a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your lips.	lying
0	Proverbs 24:30-34	I passed by the field of a sluggard, by the vineyard of a man lacking sense, and behold, it was all overgrown with thorns; the ground was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down. Then I saw and considered it; I looked and received instruction. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.	work
0	Proverbs 24:33-34	A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.	poverty
0	Proverbs 24:3-4	By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established; by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches.	beauty,planning
0	Proverbs 24:3-7	By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established; by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. A wise man is full of strength, and a man of knowledge enhances his might, for by wise guidance you can wage your war, and in abundance of counselors there is victory. Wisdom is too high for a fool; in the gate he does not open his mouth.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 24:5	A wise man is full of strength, and a man of knowledge enhances his might,	friendship
0	Proverbs 24:6	For by wise guidance you can wage your war, and in abundance of counselors there is victory.	listening
0	Proverbs 25:11	A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver.	speaking
0	Proverbs 25:12	Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear.	listening
0	Proverbs 25:13	Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him; he refreshes the soul of his masters.	harvest,reliability
0	Proverbs 25:15	With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone.	gentleness,patience
0	Proverbs 25:15-26:9	With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone. If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it. Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you. A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a war club, or a sword, or a sharp arrow. Trusting in a treacherous man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips. ...	anger
0	Proverbs 25:16	If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it.	food,health
0	Proverbs 25:17	Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you.	friendship
0	Proverbs 25:18	A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a war club, or a sword, or a sharp arrow.	honesty,lying
0	Proverbs 25:19	Trusting in a treacherous man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips.	friendship,reliability
0	Proverbs 25:21	If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,	forgiveness,giving
0	Proverbs 25:23	The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue, angry looks.	gossip
0	Proverbs 25:26	Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.	evil,faithfulness,self-control
0	Proverbs 25:27	It is not good to eat much honey, nor is it glorious to seek one's own glory.	food,pride
0	Proverbs 25:28	A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls.	anger,self-control,spirit
0	Proverbs 25:6	Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great,	humility
0	Proverbs 25:9-10	Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not reveal another's secret, lest he who hears you bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end.	gossip
0	Proverbs 26:1	Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.	harvest
0	Proverbs 26:12	Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.	pride,selfishness
0	Proverbs 26:1-28	Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool. Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in its flying, a curse that is causeless does not alight. A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. ...	gentleness
0	Proverbs 26:17	Whoever meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears.	gentleness,gossip
0	Proverbs 26:18-19	Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, &ldquo;I am only joking!&rdquo;	lying
0	Proverbs 26:20	For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases.	gentleness,gossip
0	Proverbs 26:20-22	For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases. As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife. The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.	gossip
0	Proverbs 26:22	The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.	gossip
0	Proverbs 26:24	Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips and harbors deceit in his heart;	lying
0	Proverbs 26:28	A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin.	gossip,lying,speaking
0	Proverbs 26:4	Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself.	speaking
0	Proverbs 27:10	Do not forsake your friend and your father's friend, and do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away.	friendship
0	Proverbs 27:11-13	Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me. The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts up security for an adulteress.	debt
0	Proverbs 27:12	The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it.	mind,planning,protection,punishment,safety
0	Proverbs 27:14	Whoever blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as cursing.	friendship
0	Proverbs 27:17	Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another.	community,friendship,mind,relationships
0	Proverbs 27:19	As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man.	friendship,heart,life
0	Proverbs 27:2	Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.	humility,mind,pride
0	Proverbs 27:20	Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man.	contentment,hell,materialism
0	Proverbs 27:23	Know well the condition of your flocks, and give attention to your herds,	debt,money,planning
0	Proverbs 27:3	A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty, but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.	anger
0	Proverbs 27:4	Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?	anger
0	Proverbs 27:5-6	Better is open rebuke than hidden love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy.	friendship
0	Proverbs 27:6	Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy.	friendship,relationships,speaking
0	Proverbs 27:7	One who is full loathes honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet.	food
0	Proverbs 27:7-29:12	One who is full loathes honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet. Like a bird that strays from its nest is a man who strays from his home. Oil and perfume make the heart glad, and the sweetness of a friend comes from his earnest counsel. Do not forsake your friend and your father's friend, and do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away. Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me. ...	addiction
0	Proverbs 27:9	Oil and perfume make the heart glad, and the sweetness of a friend comes from his earnest counsel.	friendship,relationships
0	Proverbs 28:1	The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion.	courage
0	Proverbs 28:11	A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man who has understanding will find him out.	poverty
0	Proverbs 28:1-28	The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion. When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but with a man of understanding and knowledge, its stability will long continue. A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food. Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them. Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it completely. ...	materialism,poverty
0	Proverbs 28:13	Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy.	confession,forgiveness,mercy,repentance,sin
0	Proverbs 28:14	Blessed is the one who fears the Lord always, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into calamity.	heart
0	Proverbs 28:18	Whoever walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is crooked in his ways will suddenly fall.	honesty
0	Proverbs 28:20	A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.	contentment,faithfulness,greed,money
0	Proverbs 28:22	A stingy man hastens after wealth and does not know that poverty will come upon him.	greed,materialism,money
0	Proverbs 28:25	A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in the Lord will be enriched.	contentment,greed,pride,trust
0	Proverbs 28:25-28	A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in the Lord will be enriched. Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered. Whoever gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse. When the wicked rise, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.	greed
0	Proverbs 28:26	Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered.	soul,trust,wisdom
0	Proverbs 28:27	Whoever gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse.	generosity,giving,selfishness
0	Proverbs 28:4	Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them.	law
0	Proverbs 28:5	Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it completely.	seeking
0	Proverbs 28:6	Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is crooked in his ways.	contentment,honesty,poverty
0	Proverbs 28:8	Whoever multiplies his wealth by interest and profit gathers it for him who is generous to the poor.	debt,money
0	Proverbs 28:9	If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.	forgiveness,prayer
0	Proverbs 29:11	A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back.	anger,evil,self-control,speaking,wisdom
0	Proverbs 29:13	The poor man and the oppressor meet together; the Lord gives light to the eyes of both.	poverty
0	Proverbs 29:15	The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother.	children,wisdom
0	Proverbs 29:15-19	The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall. Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart. Where there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but blessed is he who keeps the law. By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands, he will not respond.	addiction
0	Proverbs 29:15-31:29	The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall. Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart. Where there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but blessed is he who keeps the law. By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands, he will not respond. ...	family
0	Proverbs 29:17	Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart.	children
0	Proverbs 29:20	Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.	speaking
0	Proverbs 29:22	A man of wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression.	anger
0	Proverbs 29:23	One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor.	humility,pride
0	Proverbs 29:24-25	The partner of a thief hates his own life; he hears the curse, but discloses nothing. The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe.	soul
0	Proverbs 29:25	The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe.	dependence,fear,protection,safety,trust,worrying
0	Proverbs 29:3	He who loves wisdom makes his father glad, but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 29:4	By justice a king builds up the land, but he who exacts gifts tears it down.	greed
0	Proverbs 29:7	A righteous man knows the rights of the poor; a wicked man does not understand such knowledge.	poverty,righteousness
0	Proverbs 29:8	Scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath.	anger
0	Proverbs 29:9	If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet.	anger
0	Proverbs 3:11-12	My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights.	learning,punishment
0	Proverbs 3:1-2	My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you.	evil
0	Proverbs 3:13	Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding,	mind,wisdom
0	Proverbs 3:13-18	Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding, for the gain from her is better than gain from silver and her profit better than gold. She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. ...	peace,understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 3:1-35	My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you; bind them around your neck; write them on the tablet of your heart. So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. ...	family,health,trust
0	Proverbs 3:15	She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her.	beauty
0	Proverbs 3:19-20	The Lord by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens; by his knowledge the deeps broke open, and the clouds drop down the dew.	world
0	Proverbs 3:24	If you lie down, you will not be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.	peace,rest
0	Proverbs 3:27	Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it.	debt,giving
0	Proverbs 3:3	Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you; bind them around your neck; write them on the tablet of your heart.	faithfulness,mercy
0	Proverbs 3:31-32	Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways, for the devious person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright are in his confidence.	planning
0	Proverbs 3:32	For the devious person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright are in his confidence.	friendship
0	Proverbs 3:33	The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous.	blessing
0	Proverbs 3:33-34	The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor.	weakness
0	Proverbs 3:34	Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor.	humility,pride
0	Proverbs 3:3-4	Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you; bind them around your neck; write them on the tablet of your heart. So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man.	faithfulness,heart,love
0	Proverbs 3:4	So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man.	mercy
0	Proverbs 3:5	Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding.	contentment,conversion,dependence,faith,heart,overcoming,planning,seeking,temptation,thoughts,trust,understanding,weakness,wisdom,worrying
0	Proverbs 3:5-24	Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce; ...	christmas
0	Proverbs 3:5-6	Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.	acknowledging,courage,debt,dependence,encouragement,faith,fear,heart,learning,life,overcoming,patience,planning,seeking,sickness,soul,trust,understanding,work,worrying
0	Proverbs 3:5-8	Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones.	healing,health,trust
0	Proverbs 3:6	In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.	faith,planning,seeking,trust
0	Proverbs 3:7	Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord, and turn away from evil.	evil,wisdom
0	Proverbs 3:7-8	Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones.	evil,healing,health
0	Proverbs 3:8	It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones.	health
0	Proverbs 3:9	Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce;	debt,equipment,giving,harvest,money,sacrifice
0	Proverbs 3:9-10	Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce; then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine.	generosity,giving,money
0	Proverbs 30:10	Do not slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.	speaking
0	Proverbs 30:18-19	Three things are too wonderful for me; four I do not understand: the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a virgin.	beauty,love,marriage,relationships
0	Proverbs 30:33	For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife.	anger
0	Proverbs 30:5	Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him.	encouragement,god,protection,trust,truth,the-word
0	Proverbs 30:5-19	Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die: Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, &ldquo;Who is the Lord?&rdquo; or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. ...	christmas
0	Proverbs 30:5-6	Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar.	the-word
0	Proverbs 30:7-9	Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die: Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, &ldquo;Who is the Lord?&rdquo; or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God.	poverty
0	Proverbs 30:8	Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me,	bread,contentment
0	Proverbs 30:8-9	Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, &ldquo;Who is the Lord?&rdquo; or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God.	contentment,materialism,money
0	Proverbs 31:10	An excellent wife who can find? She is far more precious than jewels.	beauty,marriage,relationships
0	Proverbs 31:10-11	An excellent wife who can find? She is far more precious than jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain.	relationships
0	Proverbs 31:1-31	The words of King Lemuel. An oracle that his mother taught him: What are you doing, my son? What are you doing, son of my womb? What are you doing, son of my vows? Do not give your strength to women, your ways to those who destroy kings. It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink, lest they drink and forget what has been decreed and pervert the rights of all the afflicted. ...	beauty,planning,valuable
0	Proverbs 31:17	She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong.	health
0	Proverbs 31:20	She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to the needy.	poverty
0	Proverbs 31:25	Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come.	beauty,clothing,materialism
0	Proverbs 31:26	She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue.	beauty,speaking
0	Proverbs 31:27	She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness.	bread
0	Proverbs 31:30	Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.	beauty,body,clothing
0	Proverbs 31:4	It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink,	wine
0	Proverbs 31:4-5	It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink, lest they drink and forget what has been decreed and pervert the rights of all the afflicted.	wine
0	Proverbs 31:6	Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those in bitter distress;	wine
0	Proverbs 31:6-7	Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those in bitter distress; let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more.	debt,equipment,receiving
0	Proverbs 31:7	Let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more.	wine
0	Proverbs 31:8-9	Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute. Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and needy.	compassion,courage,poverty
0	Proverbs 4:11	I have taught you the way of wisdom; I have led you in the paths of uprightness.	learning
0	Proverbs 4:1-10:32	Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, &ldquo;Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. ...	the-word
0	Proverbs 4:1-2	Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching.	learning
0	Proverbs 4:1-27	Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, &ldquo;Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. ...	listening,wisdom
0	Proverbs 4:1-5	Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, &ldquo;Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.	understanding
0	Proverbs 4:1-5:23	Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, &ldquo;Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. ...	the-word
0	Proverbs 4:17	For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence.	wine
0	Proverbs 4:18	But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day.	light
0	Proverbs 4:20	My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings.	thoughts
0	Proverbs 4:20-21	My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings. Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart.	listening,the-word
0	Proverbs 4:20-22	My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings. Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart. For they are life to those who find them, and healing to all their flesh.	healing,health,sickness
0	Proverbs 4:23	Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life.	anger,heart,life,mind,protection,relationships,thoughts
0	Proverbs 4:25	Let your eyes look directly forward, and your gaze be straight before you.	honesty
0	Proverbs 4:27	Do not swerve to the right or to the left; turn your foot away from evil.	evil,self-control
0	Proverbs 4:5	Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 4:5-6	Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you.	learning
0	Proverbs 4:6	Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you.	protection
0	Proverbs 4:6-7	Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you. The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight.	wisdom
0	Proverbs 4:7	The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight.	understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 4:9	She will place on your head a graceful garland; she will bestow on you a beautiful crown.&rdquo;	grace
0	Proverbs 5:18	Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth,	marriage
0	Proverbs 5:18-19	Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth, a lovely deer, a graceful doe. Let her breasts fill you at all times with delight; be intoxicated always in her love.	marriage
0	Proverbs 5:19	A lovely deer, a graceful doe. Let her breasts fill you at all times with delight; be intoxicated always in her love.	love
0	Proverbs 6:14	With perverted heart devises evil, continually sowing discord;	heart
0	Proverbs 6:16-17	There are six things that the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,	pride
0	Proverbs 6:16-19	There are six things that the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers.	evil,gossip,lying,sin,speaking
0	Proverbs 6:16-20	There are six things that the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers. My son, keep your father's commandment, and forsake not your mother's teaching.	honesty
0	Proverbs 6:20	My son, keep your father's commandment, and forsake not your mother's teaching.	children,family,learning,listening,obedience
0	Proverbs 6:23	For the commandment is a lamp and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life,	light
0	Proverbs 6:25	Do not desire her beauty in your heart, and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes;	beauty
0	Proverbs 6:27	Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned?	addiction
0	Proverbs 6:28	Or can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched?	temptation
0	Proverbs 6:34	For jealousy makes a man furious, and he will not spare when he takes revenge.	anger
0	Proverbs 6:6-8	Go to the ant, O sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler, she prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in harvest.	debt,money,planning,work
0	Proverbs 6:8	She prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in harvest.	harvest
0	Proverbs 7:10	And behold, the woman meets him, dressed as a prostitute, wily of heart.	clothing
0	Proverbs 8:1	Does not wisdom call? Does not understanding raise her voice?	understanding
0	Proverbs 8:12	&ldquo;I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion.	mediator
0	Proverbs 8:13	The fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate.	evil,fear,humility,pride,sin
0	Proverbs 8:17	I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently find me.	love,seeking
0	Proverbs 8:17-36	I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently find me. Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness. My fruit is better than gold, even fine gold, and my yield than choice silver. I walk in the way of righteousness, in the paths of justice, granting an inheritance to those who love me, and filling their treasuries. ...	world
0	Proverbs 8:22	&ldquo;The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old.	almighty
0	Proverbs 8:22-23	&ldquo;The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old. Ages ago I was set up, at the first, before the beginning of the earth.	creation
0	Proverbs 8:27-28	When he established the heavens, I was there; when he drew a circle on the face of the deep, when he made firm the skies above, when he established the fountains of the deep,	creation
0	Proverbs 8:30	Then I was beside him, like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always,	mediator
0	Proverbs 8:32-34	&ldquo;And now, O sons, listen to me: blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise, and do not neglect it. Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors.	listening
0	Proverbs 9:10	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight.	holiness,understanding,wisdom
0	Proverbs 9:18	But he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.	hell
0	Proverbs 9:5	&ldquo;Come, eat of my bread and drink of the wine I have mixed.	wine
0	Proverbs 9:9	Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be still wiser; teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning.	learning
0	Psalm 1:1-3	Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers; but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers.	contentment,transformation
0	Psalm 1:1-6	Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers; but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous; ...	family,gratitude,judgment,lying,miracles,reliability
0	Psalm 1:3	He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers.	fruitfulness
0	Psalm 10:1-18	Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised. For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the Lord. In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, &ldquo;There is no God.&rdquo; His ways prosper at all times; your judgments are on high, out of his sight; as for all his foes, he puffs at them. ...	selfishness
0	Psalm 10:14	But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands; to you the helpless commits himself; you have been the helper of the fatherless.	orphans
0	Psalm 10:17	O Lord, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear	heart,hope,orphans
0	Psalm 10:17-18	O Lord, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more.	orphans
0	Psalm 10:18	To do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more.	orphans
0	Psalm 10:2	In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised.	persecution,pride
0	Psalm 10:3	For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the Lord.	greed
0	Psalm 10:3-4	For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the Lord. In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, &ldquo;There is no God.&rdquo;	pride
0	Psalm 10:4	In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, &ldquo;There is no God.&rdquo;	mind,pride,seeking
0	Psalm 100:1	A Psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth!	joy
0	Psalm 100:1-2	A Psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth! Serve the Lord with gladness! Come into his presence with singing!	singing
0	Psalm 100:1-4	A Psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth! Serve the Lord with gladness! Come into his presence with singing! Know that the Lord, he is God! It is he who made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name!	worship
0	Psalm 100:1-5	A Psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth! Serve the Lord with gladness! Come into his presence with singing! Know that the Lord, he is God! It is he who made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name! For the Lord is good; his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations.	gratitude,harvest,praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 100:2	Serve the Lord with gladness! Come into his presence with singing!	singing,worship
0	Psalm 100:4	Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name!	gratitude,praise,worship
0	Psalm 100:5	For the Lord is good; his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations.	goodness
0	Psalm 101:1	A Psalm of David. I will sing of steadfast love and justice; to you, O Lord, I will make music.	praise,singing
0	Psalm 101:5	Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly I will destroy. Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart I will not endure.	gossip,pride
0	Psalm 101:7	No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house; no one who utters lies shall continue before my eyes.	lying
0	Psalm 102:25	Of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands.	creation
0	Psalm 103:1	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name!	holiness,praise,worship
0	Psalm 103:10-14	He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him; as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. For he knows our frame; he remembers that we are dust.	forgiveness
0	Psalm 103:11	For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him;	heaven,mercy
0	Psalm 103:1-107:43	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. ...	addiction
0	Psalm 103:11-15	For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him; as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. For he knows our frame; he remembers that we are dust. As for man, his days are like grass; he flourishes like a flower of the field;	world
0	Psalm 103:12	As far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us.	forgiveness,reward
0	Psalm 103:1-2	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits,	gratitude
0	Psalm 103:1-22	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. ...	compassion,fear,grace,mercy,praise,sickness,soul
0	Psalm 103:13	As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him.	compassion,father,fear
0	Psalm 103:1-5	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.	contentment,gratitude,healing,overcoming
0	Psalm 103:1-6	Of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. ...	soul
0	Psalm 103:17	But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children,	fear
0	Psalm 103:17-18	But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children, to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments.	covenant,family,law,reliability
0	Psalm 103:18	To those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments.	obedience
0	Psalm 103:2	Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits,	gratitude,sickness,trust
0	Psalm 103:20	Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word!	angels,awe,obedience
0	Psalm 103:21	Bless the Lord, all his hosts, his ministers, who do his will!	angels
0	Psalm 103:2-3	Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases,	healing,health
0	Psalm 103:2-4	Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,	compassion,healing,health,sickness,transformation
0	Psalm 103:2-5	Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.	blessing,healing
0	Psalm 103:3	Who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases,	covenant
0	Psalm 103:6	The Lord works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed.	poverty
0	Psalm 103:8	The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.	anger,compassion,mercy,patience
0	Psalm 103:9-13	He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him; as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him.	sin
0	Psalm 104:1-106:48	Bless the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the wings of the wind; he makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved. ...	christmas,poverty
0	Psalm 104:1-35	Bless the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the wings of the wind; he makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved. ...	creation,world
0	Psalm 104:14-15	You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine and bread to strengthen man's heart.	wine
0	Psalm 104:15	And wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine and bread to strengthen man's heart.	bread,food,wine
0	Psalm 104:2	Covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent.	clothing,light
0	Psalm 104:24-25	O Lord, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures. Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small and great.	creation
0	Psalm 104:29	When you hide your face, they are dismayed; when you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust.	death
0	Psalm 104:30	When you send forth your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground.	acknowledging,creation,pentecost,spirit
0	Psalm 104:33	I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being.	praise,singing
0	Psalm 104:34	May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord.	mind
0	Psalm 104:4	He makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire.	angels
0	Psalm 105:1	Oh give thanks to the Lord; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples!	equipment,evangelism,gratitude
0	Psalm 105:2	Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!	singing
0	Psalm 105:37	Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled.	sickness
0	Psalm 105:4	Seek the Lord and his strength; seek his presence continually!	seeking
0	Psalm 105:43	So he brought his people out with joy, his chosen ones with singing.	joy
0	Psalm 105:5	Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he uttered,	miracles
0	Psalm 105:8	He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,	covenant
0	Psalm 105:8-11	He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations, the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac, which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant, saying, &ldquo;To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance.&rdquo;	covenant
0	Psalm 105:9	The covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,	covenant
0	Psalm 106:1	Praise the Lord! Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!	gratitude,mercy,praise
0	Psalm 106:3	Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times!	righteousness
0	Psalm 106:38	They poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood.	idols
0	Psalm 107:1	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!	goodness,gratitude,mercy
0	Psalm 107:1-2	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever! Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble	gratitude
0	Psalm 107:1-43	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever! Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in; hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. ...	goodness,gratitude,mercy,poverty
0	Psalm 107:19	Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.	calling
0	Psalm 107:19-20	Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction.	healing
0	Psalm 107:19-21	Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man!	sickness
0	Psalm 107:20	He sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction.	healing,health,sickness,sin,the-word
0	Psalm 107:28-30	Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven.	calling
0	Psalm 107:29	He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed.	gentleness,rest
0	Psalm 107:32	Let them extol him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.	worship
0	Psalm 107:37	They sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield.	harvest
0	Psalm 107:43	Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things; let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord.	wisdom
0	Psalm 107:9	For he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things.	food,reliability
0	Psalm 108:1-13	A Song. A Psalm of David. My heart is steadfast, O God! I will sing and make melody with all my being! Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn! I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth! ...	praise
0	Psalm 108:12-13	Oh grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man! With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.	mediator
0	Psalm 108:3	I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.	singing
0	Psalm 109:2	For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues.	lying
0	Psalm 109:24	My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt, with no fat.	fasting
0	Psalm 109:30	With my mouth I will give great thanks to the Lord; I will praise him in the midst of the throng.	praise
0	Psalm 11:5	The Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence.	righteousness,soul
0	Psalm 110:1	A Psalm of David. The Lord says to my Lord: &ldquo;Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.&rdquo;	messiah,pentecost
0	Psalm 110:4	The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, &ldquo;You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.&rdquo;	messiah,prophecy
0	Psalm 110:5	The Lord is at your right hand; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath.	anger
0	Psalm 111:1	Praise the Lord! I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, in the company of the upright, in the congregation.	church,praise
0	Psalm 111:10	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; all those who practice it have a good understanding. His praise endures forever!	awe,clothing,fear,obedience,praise,understanding,wisdom
0	Psalm 111:1-10	Praise the Lord! I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, in the company of the upright, in the congregation. Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them. Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the Lord is gracious and merciful. He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever. ...	beauty,food
0	Psalm 111:1-113:9	Praise the Lord! I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, in the company of the upright, in the congregation. Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them. Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the Lord is gracious and merciful. He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever. ...	family,poverty
0	Psalm 111:2	Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them.	creation
0	Psalm 111:4	He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the Lord is gracious and merciful.	compassion
0	Psalm 112:1	Praise the Lord! Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in his commandments!	fear,obedience
0	Psalm 112:4	Light dawns in the darkness for the upright; he is gracious, merciful, and righteous.	compassion
0	Psalm 112:4-8	Light dawns in the darkness for the upright; he is gracious, merciful, and righteous. It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice. For the righteous will never be moved; he will be remembered forever. He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the Lord. His heart is steady; he will not be afraid, until he looks in triumph on his adversaries.	righteousness
0	Psalm 112:5	It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice.	debt,generosity,honesty
0	Psalm 112:7	He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the Lord.	courage,heart,trust
0	Psalm 112:7-8	He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the Lord. His heart is steady; he will not be afraid, until he looks in triumph on his adversaries.	fear
0	Psalm 112:9	He has distributed freely; he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever; his horn is exalted in honor.	generosity
0	Psalm 113:1	Praise the Lord! Praise, O servants of the Lord, praise the name of the Lord!	praise
0	Psalm 113:1-9	Praise the Lord! Praise, O servants of the Lord, praise the name of the Lord! Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore! From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised! The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens! Who is like the Lord our God, who is seated on high, ...	praise
0	Psalm 113:9	He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord!	children
0	Psalm 115:1	Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness!	mercy
0	Psalm 115:11	You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord! He is their help and their shield.	fear
0	Psalm 115:1-18	Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness! Why should the nations say, &ldquo;Where is their God?&rdquo; Our God is in the heavens; he does all that he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see. ...	idols
0	Psalm 115:14	May the Lord give you increase, you and your children!	children
0	Psalm 115:15	May you be blessed by the Lord, who made heaven and earth!	creation
0	Psalm 115:16	The heavens are the Lord's heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man.	acknowledging
0	Psalm 115:17	The dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any who go down into silence.	death
0	Psalm 115:3-9	Our God is in the heavens; he does all that he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see. They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell. They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat. ...	soul
0	Psalm 115:4-7	Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see. They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell. They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat.	idols
0	Psalm 115:4-8	Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see. They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell. They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat. Those who make them become like them; so do all who trust in them.	idols
0	Psalm 116:1-118:29	I love the Lord, because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord: &ldquo;O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul!&rdquo; Gracious is the Lord, and righteous; our God is merciful. ...	courage
0	Psalm 116:1-2	I love the Lord, because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.	listening
0	Psalm 116:15	Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints.	death
0	Psalm 116:5	Gracious is the Lord, and righteous; our God is merciful.	compassion
0	Psalm 116:7	Return, O my soul, to your rest; for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you.	rest
0	Psalm 117:1-2	Praise the Lord, all nations! Extol him, all peoples! For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord!	praise
0	Psalm 118:1-18	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever! Let Israel say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Let the house of Aaron say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Let those who fear the Lord say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Out of my distress I called on the Lord; the Lord answered me and set me free. ...	gratitude
0	Psalm 118:1-29	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever! Let Israel say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Let the house of Aaron say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Let those who fear the Lord say, &ldquo;His steadfast love endures forever.&rdquo; Out of my distress I called on the Lord; the Lord answered me and set me free. ...	praise
0	Psalm 118:14	The Lord is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.	health,strength
0	Psalm 118:24	This is the day that the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.	contentment,creation,gratitude,joy,life,sabbath
0	Psalm 118:25-26	Save us, we pray, O Lord! O Lord, we pray, give us success! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! We bless you from the house of the Lord.	overcoming
0	Psalm 118:28-29	You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you. Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!	gratitude
0	Psalm 118:29	Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!	praise
0	Psalm 118:5	Out of my distress I called on the Lord; the Lord answered me and set me free.	freedom
0	Psalm 118:6	The Lord is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?	fear,overcoming,protection,strength
0	Psalm 118:6-7	The Lord is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me.	fear
0	Psalm 118:8	It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man.	protection,safety,trust
0	Psalm 119:1	Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord!	law
0	Psalm 119:10	With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments!	heart,law,seeking
0	Psalm 119:100-102	I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts. I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word. I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me.	obedience
0	Psalm 119:103	How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!	fruitfulness
0	Psalm 119:105	Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.	god,light,listening,planning,seeking,truth,the-word
0	Psalm 119:107	I am severely afflicted; give me life, O Lord, according to your word!	healing
0	Psalm 119:108	Accept my freewill offerings of praise, O Lord, and teach me your rules.	worship
0	Psalm 119:11	I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.	heart,learning,the-word
0	Psalm 119:111	Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.	joy
0	Psalm 119:112	I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end.	obedience
0	Psalm 119:1-130:8	Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes! ...	the-word
0	Psalm 119:114	You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.	hope,protection,the-word
0	Psalm 119:1-176	Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes! ...	addiction,gratitude,light,sin
0	Psalm 119:124-133	Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes. I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies! It is time for the Lord to act, for your law has been broken. Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold. Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way. ...	temptation
0	Psalm 119:129	Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.	obedience
0	Psalm 119:1-3	Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways!	holiness
0	Psalm 119:130	The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple.	fruitfulness,light,understanding,the-word
0	Psalm 119:133	Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me.	evil
0	Psalm 119:14	In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches.	joy,money
0	Psalm 119:142	Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true.	truth
0	Psalm 119:145	With my whole heart I cry; answer me, O Lord! I will keep your statutes.	heart
0	Psalm 119:15	I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways.	mind
0	Psalm 119:156	Great is your mercy, O Lord; give me life according to your rules.	compassion
0	Psalm 119:160	The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever.	truth,the-word
0	Psalm 119:163	I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.	lying
0	Psalm 119:164	Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules.	praise
0	Psalm 119:165	Great peace have those who love your law; nothing can make them stumble.	law,mind,peace
0	Psalm 119:171	My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes.	praise
0	Psalm 119:172	My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right.	goodness,speaking
0	Psalm 119:175	Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me.	praise
0	Psalm 119:18	Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.	understanding,the-word
0	Psalm 119:2	Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart,	obedience,seeking,the-word
0	Psalm 119:28	My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word!	strength
0	Psalm 119:29	Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law!	lying
0	Psalm 119:30	I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me.	law,obedience,truth
0	Psalm 119:31	I cling to your testimonies, O Lord; let me not be put to shame!	obedience
0	Psalm 119:34	Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.	understanding
0	Psalm 119:36	Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to selfish gain!	generosity,greed,selfishness
0	Psalm 119:44	I will keep your law continually, forever and ever,	obedience
0	Psalm 119:45	And I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts.	beauty,freedom,seeking
0	Psalm 119:45-48	And I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts. I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame, for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.	fear
0	Psalm 119:50	This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life.	healing,suffering
0	Psalm 119:59	When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies;	obedience
0	Psalm 119:60	I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments.	obedience
0	Psalm 119:62	At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules.	praise
0	Psalm 119:66	Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.	learning
0	Psalm 119:67	Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word.	suffering,understanding
0	Psalm 119:68	You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.	goodness
0	Psalm 119:69	The insolent smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts;	lying
0	Psalm 119:7	I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous rules.	praise
0	Psalm 119:71	It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.	healing,suffering
0	Psalm 119:74	Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word.	hope
0	Psalm 119:77	Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.	compassion
0	Psalm 119:81	My soul longs for your salvation; I hope in your word.	hope
0	Psalm 119:9	How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word.	holiness,learning,the-word
0	Psalm 119:93	I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life.	health
0	Psalm 119:97	Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all the day.	transformation
0	Psalm 12:1-17:15	To the choirmaster: according to The Sheminith. A Psalm of David. Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Everyone utters lies to his neighbor; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak. May the Lord cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts, those who say, &ldquo;With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?&rdquo; &ldquo;Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise,&rdquo; says the Lord; &ldquo;I will place him in the safety for which he longs.&rdquo; ...	selfishness
0	Psalm 12:1-8	To the choirmaster: according to The Sheminith. A Psalm of David. Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Everyone utters lies to his neighbor; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak. May the Lord cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts, those who say, &ldquo;With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?&rdquo; &ldquo;Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise,&rdquo; says the Lord; &ldquo;I will place him in the safety for which he longs.&rdquo; ...	poverty
0	Psalm 12:3	May the Lord cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts,	truth
0	Psalm 12:3-4	May the Lord cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts, those who say, &ldquo;With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?&rdquo;	gentleness
0	Psalm 12:5	&ldquo;Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise,&rdquo; says the Lord; &ldquo;I will place him in the safety for which he longs.&rdquo;	gentleness,protection,safety
0	Psalm 12:6	The words of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times.	the-word
0	Psalm 12:7	You, O Lord, will keep them; you will guard us from this generation forever.	gentleness,safety
0	Psalm 120:2	Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.	lying
0	Psalm 121:1-2	A Song of Ascents. I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth.	addiction,encouragement,worrying
0	Psalm 121:1-8	A Song of Ascents. I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved; he who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper; the Lord is your shade on your right hand. ...	encouragement,praise,prayer,protection,safety,world
0	Psalm 121:3	He will not let your foot be moved; he who keeps you will not slumber.	dependence,reliability,trust
0	Psalm 121:7	The Lord will keep you from all evil; he will keep your life.	protection
0	Psalm 121:7-8	The Lord will keep you from all evil; he will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore.	evil,life,promises,protection
0	Psalm 121:8	The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore.	protection
0	Psalm 122:1	A Song of Ascents. Of David. I was glad when they said to me, &ldquo;Let us go to the house of the Lord!&rdquo;	church
0	Psalm 122:6	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! &ldquo;May they be secure who love you!	prayer
0	Psalm 124:1-125:5	A Song of Ascents. Of David. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side&mdash; let Israel now say&mdash; if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us, then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their anger was kindled against us; then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us; then over us would have gone the raging waters. ...	addiction
0	Psalm 124:8	Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.	creation
0	Psalm 125:1	A Song of Ascents. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever.	fear
0	Psalm 125:1-3	A Song of Ascents. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people, from this time forth and forevermore. For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous, lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong.	world
0	Psalm 125:2	As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people, from this time forth and forevermore.	protection
0	Psalm 125:4	Do good, O Lord, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in their hearts!	heart
0	Psalm 126:1-128:6	A Song of Ascents. When the Lord restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the nations, &ldquo;The Lord has done great things for them.&rdquo; The Lord has done great things for us; we are glad. Restore our fortunes, O Lord, like streams in the Negeb! Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy! ...	family
0	Psalm 126:2-3	Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the nations, &ldquo;The Lord has done great things for them.&rdquo; The Lord has done great things for us; we are glad.	joy
0	Psalm 126:5	Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy!	encouragement,joy
0	Psalm 126:6	He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him.	joy
0	Psalm 127:1	A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.	dependence,mediator,planning
0	Psalm 127:1-2	A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.	planning,rest
0	Psalm 127:1-5	A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.	children
0	Psalm 127:2	It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.	bread,contentment,rest
0	Psalm 127:3	Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward.	children,learning,relationships,reward
0	Psalm 127:3-5	Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.	children,family
0	Psalm 127:5	Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.	courage
0	Psalm 128:1-6	A Song of Ascents. Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways! You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. The Lord bless you from Zion! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life! ...	work
0	Psalm 128:2	You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you.	work
0	Psalm 128:3	Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around your table.	children,family
0	Psalm 13:5	But I have trusted in your steadfast love; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation.	trust
0	Psalm 13:6	I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me.	singing
0	Psalm 130:1-132:18	A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord! O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy! If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope; ...	christmas
0	Psalm 130:1-135:21	A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord! O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy! If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope; ...	the-word
0	Psalm 130:1-2	A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord! O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy!	listening
0	Psalm 130:3	If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand?	forgiveness
0	Psalm 130:4	But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared.	forgiveness
0	Psalm 130:5	I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope;	hope,patience
0	Psalm 130:7	O Israel, hope in the Lord! For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption.	hope
0	Psalm 131:1	A Song of Ascents. Of David. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up; my eyes are not raised too high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me.	beauty,humility,pride
0	Psalm 131:2	But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my soul within me.	contentment
0	Psalm 132:7	&ldquo;Let us go to his dwelling place; let us worship at his footstool!&rdquo;	worship
0	Psalm 133:1	A Song of Ascents. Of David. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity!	church,community,family,friendship
0	Psalm 133:1-3	A Song of Ascents. Of David. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity! It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes! It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion! For there the Lord has commanded the blessing, life forevermore.	blessing,community
0	Psalm 133:3	It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion! For there the Lord has commanded the blessing, life forevermore.	eternal-life
0	Psalm 134:1-135:21	A Song of Ascents. Come, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord! Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord! May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth! Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord, give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God! ...	idols
0	Psalm 134:1-136:26	A Song of Ascents. Come, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord! Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord! May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth! Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord, give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God! ...	materialism
0	Psalm 135:1-3	Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord, give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God! Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant!	praise
0	Psalm 135:15-17	The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths.	idols
0	Psalm 135:21	Blessed be the Lord from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the Lord!	praise
0	Psalm 135:3	Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant!	singing
0	Psalm 135:5-7	For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. Whatever the Lord pleases, he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps. He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses.	world
0	Psalm 136:1	Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.	gratitude
0	Psalm 136:1-26	Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures forever; to him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever; to him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever; ...	easter,gratitude,mercy,praise
0	Psalm 136:1-3	Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures forever;	gratitude
0	Psalm 136:25	He who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever.	food
0	Psalm 136:5	To him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever;	creation
0	Psalm 137:1-9	By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down and wept, when we remembered Zion. On the willows there we hung up our lyres. For there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors, mirth, saying, &ldquo;Sing us one of the songs of Zion!&rdquo; How shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill! ...	singing
0	Psalm 138:1	Of David. I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing your praise;	praise
0	Psalm 138:1-8	Of David. I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing your praise; I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased. All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, for they have heard the words of your mouth, and they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. ...	praise
0	Psalm 138:2	I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word.	worship
0	Psalm 138:3	On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased.	life,strength
0	Psalm 138:6	For though the Lord is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar.	humility,pride
0	Psalm 138:7	Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me.	protection,safety
0	Psalm 138:8	The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me; your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands.	reliability,safety,worrying
0	Psalm 139:1-2	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. O Lord, you have searched me and known me! You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar.	seeking
0	Psalm 139:1-24	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. O Lord, you have searched me and known me! You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. ...	praise,sin
0	Psalm 139:13	For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb.	children
0	Psalm 139:13-14	For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.	beauty
0	Psalm 139:13-16	For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them.	body,children,valuable,widows
0	Psalm 139:14	I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.	beauty,body
0	Psalm 139:17	How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!	thoughts
0	Psalm 139:17-18	How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them! If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you.	thoughts
0	Psalm 139:23	Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts!	heart
0	Psalm 139:23-24	Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts! And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!	health,holiness,thoughts,transformation
0	Psalm 139:7	Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence?	spirit
0	Psalm 139:7-12	Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there! If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, &ldquo;Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,&rdquo; ...	redeemer
0	Psalm 139:7-19	Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there! If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, &ldquo;Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,&rdquo; ...	world
0	Psalm 139:8	If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there!	hell
0	Psalm 139:9-10	If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.	safety
0	Psalm 14:1	To the choirmaster. Of David. The fool says in his heart, &ldquo;There is no God.&rdquo; They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none who does good.	acknowledging
0	Psalm 14:2	The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God.	acknowledging,seeking
0	Psalm 14:2-3	The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one.	understanding
0	Psalm 14:6	You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge.	poverty
0	Psalm 140:12	I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will execute justice for the needy.	poverty
0	Psalm 140:4	Guard me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from violent men, who have planned to trip up my feet.	protection
0	Psalm 141:2	Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice!	prayer
0	Psalm 141:3	Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth; keep watch over the door of my lips!	gossip,self-control,speaking
0	Psalm 143:10	Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground!	learning,obedience
0	Psalm 143:8	Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul.	love,planning,trust
0	Psalm 144:1-15	Of David. Blessed be the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle; he is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me. O Lord, what is man that you regard him, or the son of man that you think of him? Man is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow. Bow your heavens, O Lord, and come down! Touch the mountains so that they smoke! ...	courage,praise
0	Psalm 144:9	I will sing a new song to you, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you,	singing
0	Psalm 145:1-21	A Song of Praise. Of David. I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate. ...	praise
0	Psalm 145:13	Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. [The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works.]	kingdom
0	Psalm 145:15-16	The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand; you satisfy the desire of every living thing.	food,world
0	Psalm 145:16	You open your hand; you satisfy the desire of every living thing.	desires,listening
0	Psalm 145:17	The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works.	goodness
0	Psalm 145:18	The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.	prayer,reliability,trust,truth
0	Psalm 145:18-19	The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him; he also hears their cry and saves them.	prayer
0	Psalm 145:19	He fulfills the desire of those who fear him; he also hears their cry and saves them.	desires
0	Psalm 145:20	The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.	hell
0	Psalm 145:3	Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable.	understanding
0	Psalm 145:8	The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.	compassion
0	Psalm 145:8-13	The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you! They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power, to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. ...	kingdom
0	Psalm 145:9	The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made.	god,goodness,mercy
0	Psalm 146:1-10	Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord, O my soul! I will praise the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish. Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, ...	poverty,praise
0	Psalm 146:2	I will praise the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being.	singing
0	Psalm 146:2-4	I will praise the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.	soul
0	Psalm 146:3	Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation.	trust
0	Psalm 146:4	When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.	death,hell,soul
0	Psalm 146:5	Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God,	hope
0	Psalm 146:6	Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever;	god
0	Psalm 146:9	The Lord watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin.	orphans,punishment,widows
0	Psalm 146:9-10	The Lord watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. The Lord will reign forever, your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the Lord!	kingdom
0	Psalm 147:1	Praise the Lord! For it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting.	church,singing
0	Psalm 147:10-11	His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.	weakness
0	Psalm 147:11	But the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.	hope
0	Psalm 147:1-20	Praise the Lord! For it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting. The Lord builds up Jerusalem; he gathers the outcasts of Israel. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars; he gives to all of them their names. Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure. ...	family,praise
0	Psalm 147:12-13	Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children within you.	safety
0	Psalm 147:3	He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.	beauty,healing,health,sickness
0	Psalm 147:5	Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.	god,understanding
0	Psalm 147:6	The Lord lifts up the humble; he casts the wicked to the ground.	humility
0	Psalm 147:7	Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; make melody to our God on the lyre!	singing
0	Psalm 147:9-11	He gives to the beasts their food, and to the young ravens that cry. His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.	kingdom
0	Psalm 148:1-14	Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord from the heavens; praise him in the heights! Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts! Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars! Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens! Let them praise the name of the Lord! For he commanded and they were created. ...	praise
0	Psalm 148:1-150:6	Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord from the heavens; praise him in the heights! Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts! Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars! Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens! Let them praise the name of the Lord! For he commanded and they were created. ...	beauty
0	Psalm 148:2	Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts!	angels,praise
0	Psalm 148:4	Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens!	praise
0	Psalm 149:1	Praise the Lord! Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise in the assembly of the godly!	singing,worship
0	Psalm 149:3	Let them praise his name with dancing, making melody to him with tambourine and lyre!	praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 149:4	For the Lord takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation.	beauty,humility
0	Psalm 149:5	Let the godly exult in glory; let them sing for joy on their beds.	singing
0	Psalm 15:1-2	A Psalm of David. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart;	honesty,truth
0	Psalm 15:1-3	A Psalm of David. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart; who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend;	gossip
0	Psalm 15:1-5	A Psalm of David. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart; who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend; in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord; who swears to his own hurt and does not change; who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.	gossip,righteousness
0	Psalm 15:2-3	He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart; who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend;	gossip,truth
0	Psalm 15:3	Who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend;	gossip
0	Psalm 15:5	Who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.	debt,money
0	Psalm 150:1	Praise the Lord! Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heavens!	praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 150:1-6	Praise the Lord! Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heavens! Praise him for his mighty deeds; praise him according to his excellent greatness! Praise him with trumpet sound; praise him with lute and harp! Praise him with tambourine and dance; praise him with strings and pipe! Praise him with sounding cymbals; praise him with loud clashing cymbals! ...	confession,equipment,praise,receiving,singing,worship
0	Psalm 150:4	Praise him with tambourine and dance; praise him with strings and pipe!	singing
0	Psalm 150:6	Let everything that has breath praise the Lord! Praise the Lord!	praise,singing,world,worship
0	Psalm 16:1	A Miktam of David. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge.	protection
0	Psalm 16:10	For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption.	awe,crucifixion,easter,hell,messiah,prophecy,redeemer,resurrection,soul
0	Psalm 16:11	You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.	contentment,heaven,joy,reward
0	Psalm 16:1-18:50	A Miktam of David. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, &ldquo;You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you.&rdquo; As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply; their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot. ...	safety
0	Psalm 16:2	I say to the Lord, &ldquo;You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you.&rdquo;	goodness
0	Psalm 16:4	The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply; their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips.	idols
0	Psalm 16:5-6	The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance.	reward
0	Psalm 16:8	I have set the Lord always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.	courage,encouragement,mind,protection,worrying
0	Psalm 16:9	Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure.	joy
0	Psalm 17:15	As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness; when I awake, I shall be satisfied with your likeness.	contentment,resurrection
0	Psalm 17:8	Keep me as the apple of your eye; hide me in the shadow of your wings,	protection
0	Psalm 18:1	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this song to the Lord on the day when the Lord rescued him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said: I love you, O Lord, my strength.	love,strength
0	Psalm 18:1-2	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this song to the Lord on the day when the Lord rescued him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said: I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.	strength
0	Psalm 18:1-50	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this song to the Lord on the day when the Lord rescued him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said: I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. The cords of death encompassed me; the torrents of destruction assailed me; the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me. ...	courage
0	Psalm 18:19	He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me.	beauty
0	Psalm 18:2	The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.	sadness,strength
0	Psalm 18:25	With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;	mercy
0	Psalm 18:27	For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down.	humility
0	Psalm 18:28	For it is you who light my lamp; the Lord my God lightens my darkness.	light
0	Psalm 18:30	This God&mdash;his way is perfect; the word of the Lord proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him.	god,protection,the-word
0	Psalm 18:30-32	This God&mdash;his way is perfect; the word of the Lord proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. For who is God, but the Lord? And who is a rock, except our God?&mdash; the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless.	the-word
0	Psalm 18:31	For who is God, but the Lord? And who is a rock, except our God?&mdash;	strength
0	Psalm 18:32	The God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless.	strength
0	Psalm 18:32-34	The God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless. He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.	strength
0	Psalm 18:35	You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great.	gentleness
0	Psalm 18:35-36	You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great. You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip.	protection,the-word
0	Psalm 18:6	In my distress I called upon the Lord; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears.	calling,listening,prayer
0	Psalm 19:1	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork.	creation,heaven
0	Psalm 19:1-14	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy. ...	beauty,work
0	Psalm 19:1-2	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.	creation
0	Psalm 19:13	Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.	addiction
0	Psalm 19:14	Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer.	encouragement,gossip,heart,life,speaking,thoughts
0	Psalm 19:1-4	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun,	creation
0	Psalm 19:1-7	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy. ...	world
0	Psalm 19:7	The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple;	conversion,law,the-word
0	Psalm 19:7-14	The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes; the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward. ...	thoughts
0	Psalm 19:7-9	The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes; the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether.	law
0	Psalm 19:8	The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes;	joy
0	Psalm 19:9-11	The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward.	reward
0	Psalm 2:1-12	Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord and against his Anointed, saying, &ldquo;Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us.&rdquo; He who sits in the heavens laughs; the Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying, ...	messiah
0	Psalm 2:12	Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him.	contentment
0	Psalm 2:7	I will tell of the decree: The Lord said to me, &ldquo;You are my Son; today I have begotten you.	father,messiah,prophecy
0	Psalm 2:7-8	I will tell of the decree: The Lord said to me, &ldquo;You are my Son; today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession.	world
0	Psalm 20:1-21:13	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob protect you! May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion! May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices! Selah May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans! May we shout for joy over your salvation, and in the name of our God set up our banners! May the Lord fulfill all your petitions! ...	family
0	Psalm 20:4	May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans!	blessing,desires,planning
0	Psalm 20:6	Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand.	heaven
0	Psalm 20:6-7	Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God.	mediator
0	Psalm 20:7	Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God.	trust
0	Psalm 21:4	He asked life of you; you gave it to him, length of days forever and ever.	eternal-life
0	Psalm 21:5	His glory is great through your salvation; splendor and majesty you bestow on him.	salvation
0	Psalm 21:6	For you make him most blessed forever; you make him glad with the joy of your presence.	joy
0	Psalm 22:1	To the choirmaster: according to The Doe of the Dawn. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning?	crucifixion,messiah,prophecy
0	Psalm 22:1-31	To the choirmaster: according to The Doe of the Dawn. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame. ...	equipment,messiah,praise,prophecy,resurrection,suffering
0	Psalm 22:16	For dogs encompass me; a company of evildoers encircles me; they have pierced my hands and feet&mdash;	messiah,reliability
0	Psalm 22:16-18	For dogs encompass me; a company of evildoers encircles me; they have pierced my hands and feet&mdash; I can count all my bones&mdash; they stare and gloat over me; they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.	messiah
0	Psalm 22:18	They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.	messiah,prophecy,reliability
0	Psalm 22:19	But you, O Lord, do not be far off! O you my help, come quickly to my aid!	strength
0	Psalm 22:26	The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the Lord! May your hearts live forever!	contentment,seeking
0	Psalm 22:3	Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel.	worship
0	Psalm 22:4	In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them.	trust
0	Psalm 22:4-5	In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame.	trust
0	Psalm 22:7-8	All who see me mock me; they make mouths at me; they wag their heads; &ldquo;He trusts in the Lord; let him deliver him; let him rescue him, for he delights in him!&rdquo;	messiah
0	Psalm 23:1	A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.	contentment,gratitude,redeemer
0	Psalm 23:1-2	A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.	dependence,rest
0	Psalm 23:1-24:10	A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. ...	materialism
0	Psalm 23:1-4	A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.	protection
0	Psalm 23:1-6	A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. ...	addiction,body,calling,children,church,clothing,community,compassion,courage,death,dependence,encouragement,eternal-life,evil,faith,fear,freedom,gentleness,god,goodness,gossip,heart,honesty,hope,jesus,learning,life,light,listening,persecution,planning,prayer,protection,repentance,rest,sadness,safety,serving,sickness,strength,suffering,thoughts,trust,truth,understanding,widows,worrying
0	Psalm 23:2	He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.	rest
0	Psalm 23:2-3	He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.	rest
0	Psalm 23:2-4	He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.	soul
0	Psalm 23:3	He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.	righteousness,soul,transformation
0	Psalm 23:4	Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.	death,encouragement,evil,fear,life,overcoming,persecution,promises,protection,sadness,strength,suffering,weakness,worrying
0	Psalm 23:6	Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.	eternal-life,goodness,life,mercy
0	Psalm 24:1	A Psalm of David. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein,	generosity,world
0	Psalm 24:1-2	A Psalm of David. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers.	creation
0	Psalm 24:3-6	Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah	worship
0	Psalm 24:4	He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully.	heart,honesty
0	Psalm 25:10	All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness, for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies.	truth
0	Psalm 25:14	The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant.	fear
0	Psalm 25:4	Make me to know your ways, O Lord; teach me your paths.	learning
0	Psalm 25:4-5	Make me to know your ways, O Lord; teach me your paths. Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day long.	learning,listening
0	Psalm 25:5	Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day long.	hope,learning,salvation,truth
0	Psalm 25:6	Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old.	gratitude,mercy
0	Psalm 25:6-7	Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions; according to your steadfast love remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O Lord!	goodness,mercy
0	Psalm 25:6-9	Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions; according to your steadfast love remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O Lord! Good and upright is the Lord; therefore he instructs sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.	mercy
0	Psalm 25:7	Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions; according to your steadfast love remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O Lord!	goodness
0	Psalm 25:8-9	Good and upright is the Lord; therefore he instructs sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.	humility,learning
0	Psalm 25:9	He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.	humility
0	Psalm 26:2	Prove me, O Lord, and try me; test my heart and my mind.	heart
0	Psalm 26:3	For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness.	truth
0	Psalm 26:6	I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord,	purification
0	Psalm 26:6-8	I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells.	miracles
0	Psalm 27:1	Of David. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?	courage,encouragement,fear,god,life,light,overcoming,protection,strength,weakness,worrying
0	Psalm 27:10	For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in.	family,orphans
0	Psalm 27:1-14	Of David. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be confident. One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent; he will lift me high upon a rock. ...	beauty,fear,praise
0	Psalm 27:13	I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living!	goodness,thoughts,trust
0	Psalm 27:1-3	Of David. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be confident.	fear
0	Psalm 27:14	Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the Lord!	courage,heart,patience,strength,trust
0	Psalm 27:3	Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be confident.	heart
0	Psalm 27:4	One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple.	beauty,encouragement,seeking,worship
0	Psalm 27:6	And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing and make melody to the Lord.	joy,singing
0	Psalm 27:8	You have said, &ldquo;Seek my face.&rdquo; My heart says to you, &ldquo;Your face, Lord, do I seek.&rdquo;	seeking
0	Psalm 28:7	The Lord is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts, and I am helped; my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him.	encouragement,gratitude,health,joy,praise,safety,strength,trust
0	Psalm 28:7-8	The Lord is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts, and I am helped; my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him. The Lord is the strength of his people; he is the saving refuge of his anointed.	strength,weakness
0	Psalm 29:11	May the Lord give strength to his people! May the Lord bless his people with peace!	blessing,peace,strength,weakness
0	Psalm 29:1-11	A Psalm of David. Ascribe to the Lord, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness. The voice of the Lord is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the Lord, over many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful; the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; the Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon. ...	safety
0	Psalm 29:2	Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness.	beauty,holiness,worship
0	Psalm 3:1-8	A Psalm of David, when he fled from Absalom his son. O Lord, how many are my foes! Many are rising against me; many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. Selah But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. Selah I lay down and slept; I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. ...	persecution
0	Psalm 3:2	Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. Selah	overcoming
0	Psalm 3:3	But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head.	faithfulness,overcoming,protection,sadness
0	Psalm 3:5	I lay down and slept; I woke again, for the Lord sustained me.	rest
0	Psalm 3:6	I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around.	fear
0	Psalm 3:8	Salvation belongs to the Lord; your blessing be on your people! Selah	salvation
0	Psalm 30:11	You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness,	joy,singing,worship
0	Psalm 30:1-12	A Psalm of David. A song at the dedication of the temple. I will extol you, O Lord, for you have drawn me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me. O Lord, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit. Sing praises to the Lord, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name. For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. ...	christmas
0	Psalm 30:12	That my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to you forever!	singing
0	Psalm 30:2	O Lord my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me.	healing,health,sickness
0	Psalm 30:2-3	O Lord my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me. O Lord, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit.	sickness
0	Psalm 30:4	Sing praises to the Lord, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name.	singing
0	Psalm 30:5	For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning.	anger,death,joy,patience,sadness
0	Psalm 31:14	But I trust in you, O Lord; I say, &ldquo;You are my God.&rdquo;	trust
0	Psalm 31:14-15	But I trust in you, O Lord; I say, &ldquo;You are my God.&rdquo; My times are in your hand; rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors!	trust
0	Psalm 31:15	My times are in your hand; rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors!	persecution
0	Psalm 31:16	Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your steadfast love!	light
0	Psalm 31:18	Let the lying lips be mute, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.	gossip,lying
0	Psalm 31:19	Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you, in the sight of the children of mankind!	blessing,fear,goodness
0	Psalm 31:23	Love the Lord, all you his saints! The Lord preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride.	faithfulness,pride
0	Psalm 31:24	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the Lord!	courage,encouragement,hope,strength
0	Psalm 31:9	Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am in distress; my eye is wasted from grief; my soul and my body also.	healing
0	Psalm 32:10	Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord.	sadness,trust
0	Psalm 32:11	Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart!	joy
0	Psalm 32:1-35:28	A Maskil of David. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. Selah I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, &ldquo;I will confess my transgressions to the Lord,&rdquo; and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah ...	worrying
0	Psalm 32:5	I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, &ldquo;I will confess my transgressions to the Lord,&rdquo; and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah	forgiveness,sin
0	Psalm 32:5-6	I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, &ldquo;I will confess my transgressions to the Lord,&rdquo; and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found; surely in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him.	confession
0	Psalm 32:7	You are a hiding place for me; you preserve me from trouble; you surround me with shouts of deliverance. Selah	protection,safety
0	Psalm 32:8	I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you.	encouragement,learning,promises
0	Psalm 33:10	The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; he frustrates the plans of the peoples.	planning
0	Psalm 33:11	The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations.	planning
0	Psalm 33:1-22	Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings! Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. ...	courage
0	Psalm 33:12-22	Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage! The Lord looks down from heaven; he sees all the children of man; from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth, he who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds. The king is not saved by his great army; a warrior is not delivered by his great strength. ...	mediator
0	Psalm 33:1-34:22	Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings! Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. ...	the-word
0	Psalm 33:18	Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love,	hope,reliability
0	Psalm 33:2	Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings!	singing
0	Psalm 33:21	For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name.	joy,trust
0	Psalm 33:22	Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you.	hope
0	Psalm 33:3	Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts.	singing,worship
0	Psalm 33:4	For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness.	god,reliability,truth,the-word
0	Psalm 33:5	He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord.	goodness
0	Psalm 33:6	By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host.	creation,heaven
0	Psalm 33:8	Let all the earth fear the Lord; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him!	awe
0	Psalm 34:1	Of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, so that he drove him out, and he went away. I will bless the Lord at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth.	praise,worship
0	Psalm 34:10	The young lions suffer want and hunger; but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.	seeking
0	Psalm 34:11	Come, O children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord.	listening
0	Psalm 34:12-13	What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.	lying
0	Psalm 34:1-22	Of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, so that he drove him out, and he went away. I will bless the Lord at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord; let the humble hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together! I sought the Lord, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed. ...	seeking,weakness,worrying
0	Psalm 34:13	Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.	gossip,lying,speaking,truth,understanding
0	Psalm 34:14	Turn away from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it.	evil,goodness,peace,repentance
0	Psalm 34:15	The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry.	listening,righteousness
0	Psalm 34:16	The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth.	evil
0	Psalm 34:17	When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles.	calling,contentment,prayer,sadness
0	Psalm 34:17-20	When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken.	sadness,weakness
0	Psalm 34:18	The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit.	death,fear,heart,sadness
0	Psalm 34:18-19	The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all.	sadness
0	Psalm 34:19	Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all.	dependence,freedom,persecution,protection,sickness,suffering,understanding
0	Psalm 34:20	He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken.	healing,messiah,reliability,suffering
0	Psalm 34:22	The Lord redeems the life of his servants; none of those who take refuge in him will be condemned.	protection
0	Psalm 34:4	I sought the Lord, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears.	encouragement,fear,listening,overcoming,promises,seeking,worrying
0	Psalm 34:5	Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.	beauty
0	Psalm 34:6	This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles.	healing,listening
0	Psalm 34:7	The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.	angels,fear,promises,protection
0	Psalm 34:8	Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him!	blessing,contentment,encouragement,god,goodness,reconciliation,rest
0	Psalm 34:9-36:4	Oh, fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack! The young lions suffer want and hunger; but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. Come, O children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit. ...	greed
0	Psalm 35:10	All my bones shall say, &ldquo;O Lord, who is like you, delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him, the poor and needy from him who robs him?&rdquo;	poverty
0	Psalm 35:11	Malicious witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I do not know.	messiah
0	Psalm 35:1-28	Of David. Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against me! Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help! Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers! Say to my soul, &ldquo;I am your salvation!&rdquo; Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life! Let them be turned back and disappointed who devise evil against me! Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the Lord driving them away! ...	orphans
0	Psalm 35:13	But I, when they were sick&mdash; I wore sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting; I prayed with head bowed on my chest.	fasting
0	Psalm 35:13-14	But I, when they were sick&mdash; I wore sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting; I prayed with head bowed on my chest. I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother; as one who laments his mother, I bowed down in mourning.	fasting
0	Psalm 35:18	I will thank you in the great congregation; in the mighty throng I will praise you.	praise,worship
0	Psalm 35:27	Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore, &ldquo;Great is the Lord, who delights in the welfare of his servant!&rdquo;	healing
0	Psalm 35:28	Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.	praise
0	Psalm 36:10-12	Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of heart! Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. There the evildoers lie fallen; they are thrust down, unable to rise.	safety
0	Psalm 36:9	For with you is the fountain of life; in your light do we see light.	light
0	Psalm 37:1	Of David. Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers!	thoughts
0	Psalm 37:11	But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace.	humility
0	Psalm 37:1-38:22	Of David. Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers! For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act. ...	worrying
0	Psalm 37:1-40	Of David. Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers! For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act. ...	righteousness,sadness,thoughts,trust
0	Psalm 37:16	Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked.	contentment
0	Psalm 37:16-17	Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the Lord upholds the righteous.	money
0	Psalm 37:20	But the wicked will perish; the enemies of the Lord are like the glory of the pastures; they vanish&mdash;like smoke they vanish away.	hell
0	Psalm 37:21	The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and gives;	debt,giving,greed,money
0	Psalm 37:23-24	The steps of a man are established by the Lord, when he delights in his way; though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the Lord upholds his hand.	sadness
0	Psalm 37:25	I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread.	bread,poverty,promises
0	Psalm 37:25-26	I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread. He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing.	blessing
0	Psalm 37:26	He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing.	debt,generosity
0	Psalm 37:28	For the Lord loves justice; he will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.	reliability
0	Psalm 37:3	Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness.	debt,goodness,safety,trust
0	Psalm 37:30	The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.	wisdom
0	Psalm 37:32-33	The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death. The Lord will not abandon him to his power or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial.	safety
0	Psalm 37:3-5	Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act.	contentment
0	Psalm 37:37	Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.	peace,rest
0	Psalm 37:39	The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble.	salvation
0	Psalm 37:39-40	The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble. The Lord helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him.	safety
0	Psalm 37:4	Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart.	encouragement,heart,joy,life,promises,reward,seeking
0	Psalm 37:4-5	Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act.	desires,listening
0	Psalm 37:4-6	Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday.	trust
0	Psalm 37:5	Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act.	trust
0	Psalm 37:5-6	Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday.	trust
0	Psalm 37:7	Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices!	contentment,life,materialism,patience,rest,trust
0	Psalm 37:7-9	Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices! Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil. For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land.	anger,patience
0	Psalm 37:8	Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil.	anger,worrying
0	Psalm 37:8-9	Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil. For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land.	anger
0	Psalm 38:11	My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off.	selfishness
0	Psalm 38:15	But for you, O Lord, do I wait; it is you, O Lord my God, who will answer.	hope
0	Psalm 38:18	I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin.	repentance
0	Psalm 38:3-4	There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation; there is no health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head; like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.	forgiveness
0	Psalm 38:9	O Lord, all my longing is before you; my sighing is not hidden from you.	worrying
0	Psalm 39:4	&ldquo;O Lord, make me know my end and what is the measure of my days; let me know how fleeting I am!	death
0	Psalm 39:7	&ldquo;And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you.	hope,strength
0	Psalm 4:2-6	O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Selah But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself; the Lord hears when I call to him. Be angry, and do not sin; ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent. Selah Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord. There are many who say, &ldquo;Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord!&rdquo;	sin
0	Psalm 4:4	Be angry, and do not sin; ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent. Selah	anger,heart,rest
0	Psalm 4:5	Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord.	trust
0	Psalm 4:7	You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound.	joy,wine
0	Psalm 4:8	In peace I will both lie down and sleep; for you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety.	peace,protection,rest,safety
0	Psalm 40:1	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord; he inclined to me and heard my cry.	patience
0	Psalm 40:10-11	I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me!	faithfulness
0	Psalm 40:11-12	As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me! For evils have encompassed me beyond number; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see; they are more than the hairs of my head; my heart fails me.	mercy
0	Psalm 40:1-17	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord; he inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie! You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us; none can compare with you! I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. ...	evangelism,safety,trust
0	Psalm 40:1-3	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord; he inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the Lord.	sadness
0	Psalm 40:16	But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say continually, &ldquo;Great is the Lord!&rdquo;	seeking
0	Psalm 40:17	As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; do not delay, O my God!	dependence
0	Psalm 40:3	He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the Lord.	singing,worship
0	Psalm 40:3-4	He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie!	dependence
0	Psalm 40:4	Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie!	trust
0	Psalm 40:6	In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required.	sacrifice
0	Psalm 40:9-10	I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation; behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O Lord. I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation.	gratitude
0	Psalm 41:1-3	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. Blessed is the one who considers the poor! In the day of trouble the Lord delivers him; the Lord protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies. The Lord sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.	generosity,giving,healing,orphans
0	Psalm 41:1-42:11	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. Blessed is the one who considers the poor! In the day of trouble the Lord delivers him; the Lord protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies. The Lord sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health. As for me, I said, &ldquo;O Lord, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you!&rdquo; My enemies say of me in malice, &ldquo;When will he die, and his name perish?&rdquo; ...	poverty
0	Psalm 41:2	The Lord protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies.	blessing,protection
0	Psalm 41:3	The Lord sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.	healing,health,sickness,strength
0	Psalm 41:4	As for me, I said, &ldquo;O Lord, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you!&rdquo;	healing,repentance,sickness
0	Psalm 41:6	And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity; when he goes out, he tells it abroad.	gossip
0	Psalm 41:7	All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.	gossip
0	Psalm 41:9	Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me.	friendship,messiah,prophecy
0	Psalm 42:11	Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.	hope,praise,sadness
0	Psalm 43:3	Send out your light and your truth; let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling!	truth
0	Psalm 43:4	Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God.	praise
0	Psalm 43:5	Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.	hope,soul
0	Psalm 44:21	Would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart.	confession,lying
0	Psalm 44:3	For not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm, and the light of your face, for you delighted in them.	strength
0	Psalm 45:11	And the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your lord, bow to him.	beauty,body
0	Psalm 45:1-17	To the choirmaster: according to Lilies. A Maskil of the Sons of Korah; a love song. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme; I address my verses to the king; my tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe. You are the most handsome of the sons of men; grace is poured upon your lips; therefore God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty! In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness; let your right hand teach you awesome deeds! Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you. ...	beauty
0	Psalm 45:13-14	All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold. In many-colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her.	clothing
0	Psalm 45:6	Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;	jesus
0	Psalm 46:1	To the choirmaster. Of the Sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. A Song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.	encouragement,faithfulness,fear,god,pentecost,protection,safety,strength,weakness,worrying
0	Psalm 46:10	&ldquo;Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!&rdquo;	faith,patience,peace,protection,rest,trust,worrying
0	Psalm 46:1-2	To the choirmaster. Of the Sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. A Song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea,	protection
0	Psalm 46:1-3	To the choirmaster. Of the Sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. A Song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. Selah	encouragement
0	Psalm 46:5	God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God will help her when morning dawns.	relationships
0	Psalm 47:1	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout to God with loud songs of joy!	joy
0	Psalm 47:1-9	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout to God with loud songs of joy! For the Lord, the Most High, is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet. He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loves. Selah God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. ...	singing
0	Psalm 47:6	Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!	singing
0	Psalm 48:14	That this is God, our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever.	death,sadness
0	Psalm 48:2	Beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth, Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great King.	beauty
0	Psalm 49:1-20	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. Hear this, all peoples! Give ear, all inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor together! My mouth shall speak wisdom; the meditation of my heart shall be understanding. I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre. Why should I fear in times of trouble, when the iniquity of those who cheat me surrounds me, ...	poverty
0	Psalm 49:15	But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah	resurrection
0	Psalm 49:4	I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre.	singing
0	Psalm 5:1	To the choirmaster: for the flutes. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my words, O Lord; consider my groaning.	listening
0	Psalm 5:11	But let all who take refuge in you rejoice; let them ever sing for joy, and spread your protection over them, that those who love your name may exult in you.	joy,protection,singing
0	Psalm 5:12	For you bless the righteous, O Lord; you cover him with favor as with a shield.	righteousness,safety
0	Psalm 5:1-6:10	To the choirmaster: for the flutes. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my words, O Lord; consider my groaning. Give attention to the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to you do I pray. O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch. For you are not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes; you hate all evildoers. ...	sin
0	Psalm 5:3	O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch.	listening,patience,prayer
0	Psalm 5:4	For you are not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not dwell with you.	evil
0	Psalm 5:6	You destroy those who speak lies; the Lord abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.	lying
0	Psalm 5:7	But I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, will enter your house. I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you.	worship
0	Psalm 50:10	For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills.	generosity,giving
0	Psalm 50:14	Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High,	gratitude
0	Psalm 50:15	And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.&rdquo;	calling,dependence
0	Psalm 50:15-51:13	And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.&rdquo; But to the wicked God says: &ldquo;What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips? For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you. If you see a thief, you are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers. &ldquo;You give your mouth free rein for evil, and your tongue frames deceit. ...	addiction
0	Psalm 50:16-17	But to the wicked God says: &ldquo;What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips? For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you.	honesty
0	Psalm 50:2	Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.	beauty
0	Psalm 50:20	You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.	gossip
0	Psalm 50:23	The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me; to one who orders his way rightly I will show the salvation of God!&rdquo;	gratitude
0	Psalm 50:3-4	Our God comes; he does not keep silence; before him is a devouring fire, around him a mighty tempest. He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people:	second-coming
0	Psalm 50:5	&ldquo;Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice!&rdquo;	covenant
0	Psalm 51:1	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions.	compassion,mercy
0	Psalm 51:10	Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.	heart,sin,thoughts,transformation
0	Psalm 51:10-12	Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit.	holiness,transformation
0	Psalm 51:11	Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me.	spirit
0	Psalm 51:1-19	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin! For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. ...	compassion,confession,dependence,overcoming,repentance
0	Psalm 51:12	Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit.	joy
0	Psalm 51:1-2	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin!	sin
0	Psalm 51:13	Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you.	repentance
0	Psalm 51:1-4	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin! For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment.	repentance
0	Psalm 51:15	O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise.	praise
0	Psalm 51:16-17	For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.	sacrifice
0	Psalm 51:17	The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.	heart,sacrifice
0	Psalm 51:2	Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin!	overcoming,purification
0	Psalm 51:2-5	Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin! For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me.	forgiveness
0	Psalm 51:4	Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment.	repentance
0	Psalm 51:5	Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me.	body,sin
0	Psalm 51:6	Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart.	honesty,lying,truth,wisdom
0	Psalm 51:7	Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.	purification
0	Psalm 51:8	Let me hear joy and gladness; let the bones that you have broken rejoice.	joy
0	Psalm 52:1	To the choirmaster. A Maskil of David, when Doeg, the Edomite, came and told Saul, &ldquo;David has come to the house of Ahimelech.&rdquo; Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day.	goodness
0	Psalm 52:8	But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever.	mercy
0	Psalm 53:1	To the choirmaster: according to Mahalath. A Maskil of David. The fool says in his heart, &ldquo;There is no God.&rdquo; They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good.	acknowledging
0	Psalm 55:12-14	For it is not an enemy who taunts me&mdash; then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me&mdash; then I could hide from him. But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend. We used to take sweet counsel together; within God's house we walked in the throng.	friendship
0	Psalm 55:13	But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend.	friendship
0	Psalm 55:15	Let death steal over them; let them go down to Sheol alive; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart.	ascension
0	Psalm 55:17	Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice.	prayer
0	Psalm 55:18	He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me.	overcoming,worrying
0	Psalm 55:22	Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved.	contentment,death,desires,encouragement,fear,prayer,reliability,sadness,safety,thoughts,trust,worrying
0	Psalm 55:23	But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in you.	lying
0	Psalm 55:6	And I say, &ldquo;Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest;	rest
0	Psalm 56:1-13	To the choirmaster: according to The Dove on Far-off Terebinths. A Miktam of David, when the Philistines seized him in Gath. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me; all day long an attacker oppresses me; my enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me? All day long they injure my cause; all their thoughts are against me for evil. ...	praise
0	Psalm 56:2	My enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly.	pride
0	Psalm 56:3	When I am afraid, I put my trust in you.	fear,overcoming,trust,worrying
0	Psalm 56:3-4	When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?	courage,fear,overcoming,trust
0	Psalm 56:4	In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?	trust,the-word
0	Psalm 57:1	To the choirmaster: according to Do Not Destroy. A Miktam of David, when he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by.	protection
0	Psalm 57:1-58:11	To the choirmaster: according to Do Not Destroy. A Miktam of David, when he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and save me; he will put to shame him who tramples on me. Selah God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness! My soul is in the midst of lions; I lie down amid fiery beasts&mdash; the children of man, whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth! ...	mercy
0	Psalm 57:7	My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast! I will sing and make melody!	singing
0	Psalm 58:11	Mankind will say, &ldquo;Surely there is a reward for the righteous; surely there is a God who judges on earth.&rdquo;	reward
0	Psalm 58:3	The wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies.	lying
0	Psalm 59:1	To the choirmaster: according to Do Not Destroy. A Miktam of David, when Saul sent men to watch his house in order to kill him. Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; protect me from those who rise up against me;	protection
0	Psalm 59:12	For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,	lying,pride
0	Psalm 59:16	But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress.	protection,reliability,singing,strength,worship
0	Psalm 59:9	O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress.	strength
0	Psalm 6:1-10	To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments; according to The Sheminith. A Psalm of David. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing; heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord&mdash;how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life; save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol who will give you praise? ...	overcoming
0	Psalm 6:2	Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing; heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled.	healing,health,mercy,sickness
0	Psalm 6:5	For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol who will give you praise?	soul
0	Psalm 60:12	With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.	trust
0	Psalm 60:3	You have made your people see hard things; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger.	wine
0	Psalm 60:5	That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us!	salvation
0	Psalm 62:1	To the choirmaster: according to Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation.	rest,salvation
0	Psalm 62:10	Put no trust in extortion; set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.	greed,money
0	Psalm 62:1-12	To the choirmaster: according to Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence? They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him. ...	materialism
0	Psalm 62:1-2	To the choirmaster: according to Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken.	rest
0	Psalm 62:1-63:11	To the choirmaster: according to Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence? They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him. ...	worrying
0	Psalm 62:2	He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken.	safety
0	Psalm 62:4	They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah	lying
0	Psalm 62:5	For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him.	dependence,hope,rest
0	Psalm 62:7	On God rests my salvation and my glory; my mighty rock, my refuge is God.	trust
0	Psalm 62:8	Trust in him at all times, O people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us. Selah	trust
0	Psalm 63:1	A Psalm of David, when he was in the wilderness of Judah. O God, you are my God; earnestly I seek you; my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water.	seeking,worship
0	Psalm 63:2	So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory.	fear
0	Psalm 63:3	Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you.	love
0	Psalm 63:8	My soul clings to you; your right hand upholds me.	soul
0	Psalm 64:1-10	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my life from dread of the enemy. Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers, who whet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows, shooting from ambush at the blameless, shooting at him suddenly and without fear. They hold fast to their evil purpose; they talk of laying snares secretly, thinking, &ldquo;Who can see them?&rdquo; ...	evil
0	Psalm 65:1-13	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. A Song. Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and to you shall vows be performed. O you who hear prayer, to you shall all flesh come. When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. Blessed is the one you choose and bring near, to dwell in your courts! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple! By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas; ...	praise,world
0	Psalm 65:4	Blessed is the one you choose and bring near, to dwell in your courts! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple!	goodness
0	Psalm 66:1-20	To the choirmaster. A Song. A Psalm. Shout for joy to God, all the earth; sing the glory of his name; give to him glorious praise! Say to God, &ldquo;How awesome are your deeds! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you. All the earth worships you and sings praises to you; they sing praises to your name.&rdquo; Selah Come and see what God has done: he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man. ...	gratitude,praise
0	Psalm 66:12-18	You let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance. I will come into your house with burnt offerings; I will perform my vows to you, that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble. I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals, with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams; I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for my soul. ...	sin
0	Psalm 66:17	I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue.	prayer
0	Psalm 66:18	If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.	prayer
0	Psalm 66:4	All the earth worships you and sings praises to you; they sing praises to your name.&rdquo; Selah	praise,worship
0	Psalm 66:8-12	Bless our God, O peoples; let the sound of his praise be heard, who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip. For you, O God, have tested us; you have tried us as silver is tried. You brought us into the net; you laid a crushing burden on our backs; you let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance.	temptation,transformation
0	Psalm 67:4	Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Selah	singing
0	Psalm 68:1-35	To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. A Song. God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered; and those who hate him shall flee before him! As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away; as wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God! But the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be jubilant with joy! Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the Lord; exult before him! Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. ...	singing
0	Psalm 68:17	The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary.	angels
0	Psalm 68:18	You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the Lord God may dwell there.	ascension,messiah
0	Psalm 68:32	O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, Selah	singing
0	Psalm 68:35	Awesome is God from his sanctuary; the God of Israel&mdash;he is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God!	strength
0	Psalm 68:4	Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the Lord; exult before him!	praise,singing
0	Psalm 68:4-5	Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the Lord; exult before him! Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation.	holiness,orphans,safety
0	Psalm 68:5	Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation.	orphans,widows
0	Psalm 68:5-6	Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land.	orphans
0	Psalm 68:6	God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land.	friendship,orphans,punishment,singing
0	Psalm 69:10	When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach.	fasting
0	Psalm 69:1-36	To the choirmaster: according to Lilies. Of David. Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck. I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me. I am weary with my crying out; my throat is parched. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God. More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore? O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you. ...	understanding
0	Psalm 69:16	Answer me, O Lord, for your steadfast love is good; according to your abundant mercy, turn to me.	goodness
0	Psalm 69:20	Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none.	comforter
0	Psalm 69:21	They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink.	messiah,prophecy
0	Psalm 69:25	May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents.	prophecy
0	Psalm 69:30	I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving.	gratitude,praise
0	Psalm 69:34	Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them.	praise
0	Psalm 69:4	More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore?	messiah
0	Psalm 69:5	O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you.	sin
0	Psalm 69:8	I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons.	messiah
0	Psalm 7:11	God is a righteous judge, and a God who feels indignation every day.	anger
0	Psalm 7:17	I will give to the Lord the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord, the Most High.	gratitude,praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 70:3	Let them turn back because of their shame who say, &ldquo;Aha, Aha!&rdquo;	speaking
0	Psalm 70:4	May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love your salvation say evermore, &ldquo;God is great!&rdquo;	joy
0	Psalm 71:1-24	In you, O Lord, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame! In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; incline your ear to me, and save me! Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come; you have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man. For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O Lord, from my youth. ...	materialism
0	Psalm 71:14	But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more.	hope,praise
0	Psalm 71:15	My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge.	praise
0	Psalm 71:23	My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed.	joy,singing
0	Psalm 71:24	And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long, for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt.	evangelism
0	Psalm 71:5	For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O Lord, from my youth.	hope
0	Psalm 71:8	My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day.	praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 72:1-20	Of Solomon. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son! May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice! Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness! May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor! May they fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon, throughout all generations! ...	world
0	Psalm 73:1	A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.	heart
0	Psalm 73:16-17	But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task, until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I discerned their end.	understanding
0	Psalm 73:24	You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory.	heaven
0	Psalm 73:25	Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you.	friendship
0	Psalm 73:26	My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.	death,dependence,god,health,heart,life,peace,rest,strength,suffering,weakness
0	Psalm 73:28	But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.	evangelism
0	Psalm 73:6	Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment.	pride
0	Psalm 74:20	Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.	covenant
0	Psalm 75:5-7	Do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck.&rsquo;&rdquo; For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up, but it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another.	world
0	Psalm 75:8	For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs.	wine
0	Psalm 76:1-12	To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments. A Psalm of Asaph. A Song. In Judah God is known; his name is great in Israel. His abode has been established in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion. There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah Glorious are you, more majestic than the mountains of prey. The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil; they sank into sleep; all the men of war were unable to use their hands. ...	praise
0	Psalm 76:8	From the heavens you uttered judgment; the earth feared and was still,	humility
0	Psalm 77:13	Your way, O God, is holy. What god is great like our God?	worship
0	Psalm 77:14	You are the God who works wonders; you have made known your might among the peoples.	miracles
0	Psalm 77:1-78:72	To the choirmaster: according to Jeduthun. A Psalm of Asaph. I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying; my soul refuses to be comforted. When I remember God, I moan; when I meditate, my spirit faints. Selah You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. I consider the days of old, the years long ago. ...	gratitude
0	Psalm 77:9	Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion?&rdquo; Selah	compassion
0	Psalm 78:1-79:13	A Maskil of Asaph. Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth! I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings from of old, things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the Lord, and his might, and the wonders that he has done. He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children, ...	selfishness
0	Psalm 78:38	Yet he, being compassionate, atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often and did not stir up all his wrath.	compassion
0	Psalm 78:53	He led them in safety, so that they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.	safety
0	Psalm 78:7	So that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments;	hope
0	Psalm 79:9	Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name; deliver us, and atone for our sins, for your name's sake!	freedom
0	Psalm 8:1	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. A Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens.	world,worship
0	Psalm 8:1-9	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. A Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor. ...	world,worship
0	Psalm 8:2	Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.	children,messiah
0	Psalm 8:3	When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place,	creation,heaven
0	Psalm 8:5	Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor.	almighty,mediator
0	Psalm 80:19	Restore us, O Lord God of hosts! Let your face shine, that we may be saved!	light
0	Psalm 81:1	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. Of Asaph. Sing aloud to God our strength; shout for joy to the God of Jacob!	praise,singing
0	Psalm 81:10	I am the Lord your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.	blessing,food
0	Psalm 81:16	But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat, and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you.&rdquo;	bread
0	Psalm 81:1-82:8	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. Of Asaph. Sing aloud to God our strength; shout for joy to the God of Jacob! Raise a song; sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp. Blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day. For it is a statute for Israel, a rule of the God of Jacob. He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a language I had not known: ...	poverty,worrying
0	Psalm 81:8	Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me!	listening
0	Psalm 82:1	A Psalm of Asaph. God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst of the gods he holds judgment:	mediator
0	Psalm 82:1-8	A Psalm of Asaph. God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst of the gods he holds judgment: &ldquo;How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.&rdquo; They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness; all the foundations of the earth are shaken. ...	courage
0	Psalm 82:3	Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.	judgment,orphans
0	Psalm 82:3-4	Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.&rdquo;	orphans,weakness
0	Psalm 82:4	Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.&rdquo;	orphans
0	Psalm 82:6	I said, &ldquo;You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;	mediator
0	Psalm 84:10	For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness.	worship
0	Psalm 84:11	For the Lord God is a sun and shield; the Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly.	goodness,promises
0	Psalm 84:1-3	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God. Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God.	worship
0	Psalm 84:1-88:18	To the choirmaster: according to The Gittith. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God. Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise! Selah Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion. ...	poverty
0	Psalm 84:4	Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise! Selah	worship
0	Psalm 85:10	Steadfast love and faithfulness meet; righteousness and peace kiss each other.	marriage,mercy,peace,truth
0	Psalm 85:11-13	Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky. Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way.	harvest
0	Psalm 85:12	Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase.	harvest
0	Psalm 85:8	Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints; but let them not turn back to folly.	peace
0	Psalm 86:11	Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth; unite my heart to fear your name.	truth
0	Psalm 86:1-17	A Prayer of David. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly; save your servant, who trusts in you&mdash;you are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you. ...	understanding
0	Psalm 86:13	For great is your steadfast love toward me; you have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.	hell
0	Psalm 86:15	But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.	compassion,god,love,mercy,patience
0	Psalm 86:5	For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you.	forgiveness,god,mercy,reliability
0	Psalm 86:9	All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name.	worship
0	Psalm 89:1	A Maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord, forever; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.	singing
0	Psalm 89:11	The heavens are yours; the earth also is yours; the world and all that is in it, you have founded them.	creation
0	Psalm 89:1-52	A Maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord, forever; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I said, &ldquo;Steadfast love will be built up forever; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness.&rdquo; You have said, &ldquo;I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn to David my servant: &lsquo;I will establish your offspring forever, and build your throne for all generations.&rsquo;&rdquo; Selah Let the heavens praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness in the assembly of the holy ones! ...	christmas
0	Psalm 89:3	You have said, &ldquo;I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn to David my servant:	covenant
0	Psalm 89:33	But I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness.	faithfulness
0	Psalm 89:34	I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips.	covenant,promises
0	Psalm 9:1	To the choirmaster: according to Muth-labben. A Psalm of David. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds.	gratitude,heart,singing
0	Psalm 9:10	And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you.	seeking,trust
0	Psalm 9:11	Sing praises to the Lord, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds!	singing
0	Psalm 9:17	The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God.	hell
0	Psalm 9:18	For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever.	hope
0	Psalm 9:2	I will be glad and exult in you; I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.	singing
0	Psalm 9:9	The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.	sadness,safety
0	Psalm 90:10	The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span is but toil and trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away.	pentecost
0	Psalm 90:12	So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom.	heart,life,pentecost,planning,wisdom
0	Psalm 90:17	Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands!	encouragement,work
0	Psalm 90:2	Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God.	awe,creation,planning,understanding
0	Psalm 91:1	He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.	protection,rest
0	Psalm 91:10	No evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent.	protection
0	Psalm 91:11	For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways.	angels
0	Psalm 91:11-12	For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.	angels
0	Psalm 91:1-16	He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, &ldquo;My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust.&rdquo; For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness is a shield and buckler. You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day, ...	blessing,devil,fear,god,gratitude,persecution,prayer,protection,safety,sickness,trust,worrying
0	Psalm 91:1-2	He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, &ldquo;My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust.&rdquo;	rest,sadness,trust
0	Psalm 91:1-3	He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, &ldquo;My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust.&rdquo; For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence.	protection
0	Psalm 91:14-15	&ldquo;Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him; I will protect him, because he knows my name. When he calls to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him and honor him.	freedom,soul
0	Psalm 91:3	For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence.	addiction
0	Psalm 91:4	He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness is a shield and buckler.	faithfulness,protection
0	Psalm 91:7	A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you.	protection
0	Psalm 91:9-10	Because you have made the Lord your dwelling place&mdash; the Most High, who is my refuge&mdash; no evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent.	protection
0	Psalm 92:1	A Psalm. A Song for the Sabbath. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High;	gratitude,praise,singing
0	Psalm 92:1-15	A Psalm. A Song for the Sabbath. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High; to declare your steadfast love in the morning, and your faithfulness by night, to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work; at the works of your hands I sing for joy. How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep! ...	beauty
0	Psalm 92:12-14	The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord; they flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age; they are ever full of sap and green,	blessing
0	Psalm 93:1	The Lord reigns; he is robed in majesty; the Lord is robed; he has put on strength as his belt. Yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved.	acknowledging
0	Psalm 93:5	Your decrees are very trustworthy; holiness befits your house, O Lord, forevermore.	holiness
0	Psalm 94:11	The Lord&mdash;knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath.	mind,thoughts
0	Psalm 94:12-14	Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law, to give him rest from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked. For the Lord will not forsake his people; he will not abandon his heritage;	rest
0	Psalm 94:17	If the Lord had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence.	blessing
0	Psalm 94:17-18	If the Lord had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence. When I thought, &ldquo;My foot slips,&rdquo; your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up.	addiction
0	Psalm 94:18	When I thought, &ldquo;My foot slips,&rdquo; your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up.	temptation
0	Psalm 94:19	When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul.	fear,joy,soul,thoughts,worrying
0	Psalm 94:6	They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless;	orphans,widows
0	Psalm 95:1	Oh come, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation!	praise,singing,worship
0	Psalm 95:1-2	Oh come, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!	singing
0	Psalm 95:1-3	Oh come, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise! For the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods.	gratitude
0	Psalm 95:1-6	Oh come, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise! For the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods. In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his also. The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. ...	worship
0	Psalm 95:6	Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker!	praise,worship
0	Psalm 96:1	Oh sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth!	singing
0	Psalm 96:11-12	Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all that fills it; let the field exult, and everything in it! Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy	beauty,creation
0	Psalm 96:1-13	Oh sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth! Sing to the Lord, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples! For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens. ...	idols,singing
0	Psalm 96:1-2	Oh sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth! Sing to the Lord, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.	singing
0	Psalm 96:3	Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!	calling
0	Psalm 96:5	For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens.	idols
0	Psalm 96:8	Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; bring an offering, and come into his courts!	worship
0	Psalm 96:9	Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness; tremble before him, all the earth!	holiness,worship
0	Psalm 97:10	O you who love the Lord, hate evil! He preserves the lives of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked.	evil,freedom,holiness,reliability
0	Psalm 97:11	Light is sown for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.	heart,joy,light
0	Psalm 97:2	Clouds and thick darkness are all around him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.	god
0	Psalm 97:7	All worshipers of images are put to shame, who make their boast in worthless idols; worship him, all you gods!	idols
0	Psalm 98:1	A Psalm. Oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him.	holiness,singing
0	Psalm 98:1-9	A Psalm. Oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation; he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises! Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody! ...	beauty,praise,singing
0	Psalm 98:4	Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises!	singing
0	Psalm 98:4-6	Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises! Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody! With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord!	praise
0	Psalm 98:9	Before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.	judgment
0	Psalm 99:3	Let them praise your great and awesome name! Holy is he!	praise
0	Psalm 99:5	Exalt the Lord our God; worship at his footstool! Holy is he!	praise,worship
0	Psalm 99:7	In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them.	obedience
0	Revelation 1:1	The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,	angels,blood,calling,covenant,encouragement,evil,freedom,god,goodness,gossip,health,law,life,listening,mind,orphans,overcoming,planning,promises,prophecy,punishment,reliability,thoughts,the-word
0	Revelation 1:10	I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet	sabbath
0	Revelation 1:1-20	The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood ...	beauty,blood,body,clothing,conversion,dependence,easter,evangelism,evil,food,friendship,gentleness,god,goodness,gossip,harvest,hell,holiness,learning,life,materialism,neighbor,peace,persecution,promises,protection,rebirth,redeemer,rest,seeking,serving,slavery,spirit,suffering,transformation,weakness,worrying
0	Revelation 1:13	And in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest.	clothing
0	Revelation 1:17	When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, &ldquo;Fear not, I am the first and the last,	fear,redeemer
0	Revelation 1:17-18	When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, &ldquo;Fear not, I am the first and the last, and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades.	jesus,resurrection
0	Revelation 1:18	And the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades.	awe,death,hell,redeemer
0	Revelation 1:2	Who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw.	the-word
0	Revelation 1:3	Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near.	equipment,prophecy
0	Revelation 1:5	And from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood	blood
0	Revelation 1:6	And made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.	praise
0	Revelation 1:7	Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen.	prophecy,second-coming
0	Revelation 1:8	&ldquo;I am the Alpha and the Omega,&rdquo; says the Lord God, &ldquo;who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.&rdquo;	father,god,jesus,rebirth,reliability
0	Revelation 1:8-2:4	&ldquo;I am the Alpha and the Omega,&rdquo; says the Lord God, &ldquo;who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.&rdquo; I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, &ldquo;Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.&rdquo; Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands, ...	family
0	Revelation 1:9	I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.	patience,persecution
0	Revelation 10:1-6	Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over his head, and his face was like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire. He had a little scroll open in his hand. And he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land, and called out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he called out, the seven thunders sounded. And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying, &ldquo;Seal up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down.&rdquo; And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven ...	angels
0	Revelation 10:6	And swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there would be no more delay,	creation
0	Revelation 11:11-12	But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them. Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, &ldquo;Come up here!&rdquo; And they went up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them.	second-coming
0	Revelation 11:1-19	Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, &ldquo;Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there, but do not measure the court outside the temple; leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months. And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.&rdquo; These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. And if anyone would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed. ...	compassion,confession,equipment,idols
0	Revelation 11:15	Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, &ldquo;The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever.&rdquo;	kingdom,second-coming
0	Revelation 11:16	And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God,	praise
0	Revelation 11:17	Saying, &ldquo;We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was, for you have taken your great power and begun to reign.	gratitude
0	Revelation 11:18	The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Revelation 11:19	Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail.	covenant,heaven
0	Revelation 11:9-11	For three and a half days some from the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb, and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth. But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.	christmas
0	Revelation 12:10	And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, &ldquo;Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God.	devil
0	Revelation 12:11	And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death.	blood,death,neighbor,overcoming,temptation
0	Revelation 12:1-17	And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth. And another sign appeared in heaven: behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it. She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne, ...	devil,equipment,nearness
0	Revelation 12:12	Therefore, rejoice, O heavens and you who dwell in them! But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short!&rdquo;	devil
0	Revelation 12:4	His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it.	devil
0	Revelation 12:7	Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back,	angels,mediator
0	Revelation 12:7-11	Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world&mdash;he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, &ldquo;Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death.	mediator
0	Revelation 12:7-9	Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world&mdash;he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.	heaven
0	Revelation 12:9	And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world&mdash;he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.	calling,devil
0	Revelation 12:9-11	And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world&mdash;he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, &ldquo;Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death.	christmas
0	Revelation 13:1	And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems on its horns and blasphemous names on its heads.	purification
0	Revelation 13:10	If anyone is to be taken captive, to captivity he goes; if anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the sword must he be slain. Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.	patience
0	Revelation 13:1-18	And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems on its horns and blasphemous names on its heads. And the beast that I saw was like a leopard; its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. And to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority. One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast. And they worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, &ldquo;Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?&rdquo; And the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty-two months. ...	equipment,nearness
0	Revelation 13:14	And by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast it deceives those who dwell on earth, telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived.	miracles
0	Revelation 14:1	Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.	equipment
0	Revelation 14:10	He also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.	hell
0	Revelation 14:11	And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name.&rdquo;	hell,punishment,rest
0	Revelation 14:12	Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.	confession,equipment,patience
0	Revelation 14:1-20	Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps, and they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as firstfruits for God and the Lamb, and in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless. ...	harvest,promises
0	Revelation 14:13	And I heard a voice from heaven saying, &ldquo;Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.&rdquo; &ldquo;Blessed indeed,&rdquo; says the Spirit, &ldquo;that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!&rdquo;	death,heaven,rest
0	Revelation 14:14-16	Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand. And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, &ldquo;Put in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.&rdquo; So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped.	harvest
0	Revelation 14:15	And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, &ldquo;Put in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.&rdquo;	harvest
0	Revelation 14:17-20	Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, the angel who has authority over the fire, and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, &ldquo;Put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe.&rdquo; So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress, as high as a horse's bridle, for 1,600 stadia.	harvest
0	Revelation 14:5	And in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless.	speaking
0	Revelation 14:6	Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people.	angels,calling
0	Revelation 14:6-7	Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people. And he said with a loud voice, &ldquo;Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water.&rdquo;	creation
0	Revelation 14:7	And he said with a loud voice, &ldquo;Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water.&rdquo;	praise,worship
0	Revelation 14:8	Another angel, a second, followed, saying, &ldquo;Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who made all nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality.&rdquo;	wine
0	Revelation 14:9	And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, &ldquo;If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,	equipment
0	Revelation 15:1	Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing, seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished.	anger
0	Revelation 15:3	And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, &ldquo;Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty! Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations!	blameless,singing
0	Revelation 15:3-4	And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, &ldquo;Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty! Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations! Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed.&rdquo;	singing
0	Revelation 15:4	Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed.&rdquo;	holiness,worship
0	Revelation 15:6	And out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure, bright linen, with golden sashes around their chests.	clothing
0	Revelation 16:15	(&ldquo;Behold, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!&rdquo;)	second-coming
0	Revelation 16:17-21	The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple, from the throne, saying, &ldquo;It is done!&rdquo; And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, and a great earthquake such as there had never been since man was on the earth, so great was that earthquake. The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and God remembered Babylon the great, to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath. And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found. And great hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people; and they cursed God for the plague of the hail, because the plague was so severe.	second-coming
0	Revelation 16:2	So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful sores came upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.	equipment
0	Revelation 16:6	For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve!&rdquo;	blood
0	Revelation 17:1-18	Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, &ldquo;Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk.&rdquo; And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. And on her forehead was written a name of mystery: &ldquo;Babylon the great, mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations.&rdquo; ...	nearness,rebirth
0	Revelation 17:14	They will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful.&rdquo;	calling
0	Revelation 17:6	And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I marveled greatly.	persecution
0	Revelation 18:1-24	After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was made bright with his glory. And he called out with a mighty voice, &ldquo;Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast. For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living.&rdquo; Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, &ldquo;Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues; for her sins are heaped high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. ...	greed
0	Revelation 18:4	Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, &ldquo;Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues;	materialism
0	Revelation 18:7	As she glorified herself and lived in luxury, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning, since in her heart she says, &lsquo;I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see.&rsquo;	pride,selfishness
0	Revelation 19:1	After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying out, &ldquo;Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God,	comforter
0	Revelation 19:10	Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, &ldquo;You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God.&rdquo; For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.	angels,comforter,mediator,prophecy,worship
0	Revelation 19:1-21	After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying out, &ldquo;Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for his judgments are true and just; for he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged on her the blood of his servants.&rdquo; Once more they cried out, &ldquo;Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever.&rdquo; And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who was seated on the throne, saying, &ldquo;Amen. Hallelujah!&rdquo; And from the throne came a voice saying, &ldquo;Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, small and great.&rdquo; ...	second-coming
0	Revelation 19:13	He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God.	the-word
0	Revelation 19:16	On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of kings and Lord of lords.	equipment,mediator
0	Revelation 19:20	And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet who in its presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.	equipment,hell,miracles
0	Revelation 19:7-9	Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his Bride has made herself ready; it was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure&rdquo;&mdash; for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, &ldquo;Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.&rdquo; And he said to me, &ldquo;These are the true words of God.&rdquo;	marriage
0	Revelation 19:8	It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure&rdquo;&mdash; for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints.	clothing
0	Revelation 2:10	Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.	blameless,devil,faithfulness,fear,persecution,reliability,reward,suffering
0	Revelation 2:11	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.&rsquo;	hell,holy-spirit
0	Revelation 2:1-3:22	&ldquo;To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: &lsquo;The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false. I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary. But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first. Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. ...	reward
0	Revelation 2:14	But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality.	idols
0	Revelation 2:16	Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth.	repentance
0	Revelation 2:17	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.&rsquo;	overcoming,reward
0	Revelation 2:19	&ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.	patience
0	Revelation 2:2	&ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.	lying,patience
0	Revelation 2:21	I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.	repentance
0	Revelation 2:22	Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works,	repentance
0	Revelation 2:23	And I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works.	heart,reward
0	Revelation 2:26	The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations,	overcoming,reward
0	Revelation 2:26-5:10	The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the morning star. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.&rsquo; &ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &lsquo;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. ...	courage
0	Revelation 2:3	I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary.	patience
0	Revelation 2:5	Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.	repentance
0	Revelation 2:7	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.&rsquo;	eternal-life,heaven,listening
0	Revelation 2:8-10	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: &lsquo;The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.	persecution
0	Revelation 2:9	&ldquo;&lsquo;I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.	persecution,poverty,valuable
0	Revelation 20:10	And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.	devil,hell,punishment
0	Revelation 20:11	Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them.	heaven
0	Revelation 20:11-15	Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.	judgment,mediator,reconciliation,resurrection,second-coming
0	Revelation 20:1-15	Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain. And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, and threw him into the pit, and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he might not deceive the nations any longer, until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. ...	awe,hell,judgment,rebirth,resurrection,reward,second-coming
0	Revelation 20:12	And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done.	punishment,reliability
0	Revelation 20:12-13	And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done.	hell
0	Revelation 20:13	And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done.	devil,judgment
0	Revelation 20:13-14	And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.	hell
0	Revelation 20:13-15	And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.	hell
0	Revelation 20:14	Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.	death,hell,punishment
0	Revelation 20:14-15	Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.	hell
0	Revelation 20:15	And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.	awe,hell,punishment,reconciliation
0	Revelation 20:2	And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years,	devil
0	Revelation 20:4	Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.	equipment,persecution
0	Revelation 20:4-6	Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.	hell,resurrection
0	Revelation 20:6	Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.	death,hell,redeemer,soul
0	Revelation 20:7	And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison	devil
0	Revelation 21:1	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.	heaven
0	Revelation 21:11	Having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.	transformation
0	Revelation 21:1-27	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, &ldquo;Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo; And he who was seated on the throne said, &ldquo;Behold, I am making all things new.&rdquo; Also he said, &ldquo;Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.&rdquo; ...	heaven,promises,transformation
0	Revelation 21:1-4	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, &ldquo;Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Revelation 21:1-5	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, &ldquo;Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo; And he who was seated on the throne said, &ldquo;Behold, I am making all things new.&rdquo; Also he said, &ldquo;Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Revelation 21:1-6	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, &ldquo;Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo; And he who was seated on the throne said, &ldquo;Behold, I am making all things new.&rdquo; Also he said, &ldquo;Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.&rdquo; ...	beauty
0	Revelation 21:18	The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass.	heaven
0	Revelation 21:19	The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,	heaven
0	Revelation 21:21-25	And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass. And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day&mdash;and there will be no night there.	heaven
0	Revelation 21:22-27	And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day&mdash;and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations. ...	heaven
0	Revelation 21:23	And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb.	light
0	Revelation 21:23-25	And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day&mdash;and there will be no night there.	light
0	Revelation 21:27	But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.	heaven,lying
0	Revelation 21:3-4	And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, &ldquo;Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo;	worrying
0	Revelation 21:4	He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.&rdquo;	death,encouragement,fear,healing,health,hope,life,overcoming,promises,repentance,sadness,sickness,suffering
0	Revelation 21:6	And he said to me, &ldquo;It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.	encouragement
0	Revelation 21:7	The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son.	equipment,overcoming
0	Revelation 21:7-8	The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.&rdquo;	lying
0	Revelation 21:8	But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.&rdquo;	awe,blameless,calling,courage,death,devil,evil,hell,honesty,idols,lying,punishment,resurrection,sin,soul
0	Revelation 21:9	Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, &ldquo;Come, I will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb.&rdquo;	relationships
0	Revelation 22:11	Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Revelation 22:12	&ldquo;Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done.	judgment,reward,second-coming
0	Revelation 22:1-21	Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city; also, on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. ...	fruitfulness
0	Revelation 22:12-16	&ldquo;Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.&rdquo; Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. &ldquo;I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.&rdquo;	redeemer
0	Revelation 22:14	Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates.	transformation
0	Revelation 22:14-15	Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.	truth
0	Revelation 22:15	Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.	blameless,heaven,lying,sin
0	Revelation 22:1-5	Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city; also, on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever.	heaven
0	Revelation 22:16	&ldquo;I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.&rdquo;	messiah
0	Revelation 22:17	The Spirit and the Bride say, &ldquo;Come.&rdquo; And let the one who hears say, &ldquo;Come.&rdquo; And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price.	spirit
0	Revelation 22:18	I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book,	pentecost,sickness
0	Revelation 22:18-19	I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book, and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book.	christmas
0	Revelation 22:20	He who testifies to these things says, &ldquo;Surely I am coming soon.&rdquo; Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!	second-coming
0	Revelation 22:21	The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen.	grace
0	Revelation 22:4	They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.	equipment
0	Revelation 22:6	And he said to me, &ldquo;These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place.&rdquo;	angels
0	Revelation 22:8	I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me,	angels
0	Revelation 22:8-9	I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me, but he said to me, &ldquo;You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.&rdquo;	angels
0	Revelation 22:9	But he said to me, &ldquo;You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.&rdquo;	angels,mediator,worship
0	Revelation 3:10	Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.	patience,protection,second-coming,temptation
0	Revelation 3:11	I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.	reward,second-coming
0	Revelation 3:1-19:21	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &lsquo;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. ...	punishment
0	Revelation 3:1-21:27	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &lsquo;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. ...	overcoming
0	Revelation 3:1-22	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &lsquo;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. ...	eternal-life
0	Revelation 3:14	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: &lsquo;The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation.	comforter
0	Revelation 3:14-22	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: &lsquo;The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot! So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. ...	rebirth
0	Revelation 3:1-5:14	&ldquo;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &lsquo;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. &ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. ...	overcoming
0	Revelation 3:17	For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.	pride
0	Revelation 3:18	I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see.	clothing
0	Revelation 3:19	Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.	conversion,learning,punishment,repentance
0	Revelation 3:20	Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.	blameless,conversion,food,listening,salvation
0	Revelation 3:21	The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.	ascension,mediator,overcoming
0	Revelation 3:3	Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.	repentance
0	Revelation 3:5	The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.	clothing,overcoming,promises,salvation
0	Revelation 3:8	&ldquo;&lsquo;I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.	weakness
0	Revelation 3:9	Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie&mdash;behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet and they will learn that I have loved you.	devil,valuable
0	Revelation 4:1	After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, &ldquo;Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.&rdquo;	second-coming
0	Revelation 4:10	The twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying,	reward
0	Revelation 4:11	&ldquo;Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created.&rdquo;	acknowledging,creation,god,worship
0	Revelation 4:1-11	After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, &ldquo;Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.&rdquo; At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning, and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God, ...	heaven
0	Revelation 4:1-2	After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, &ldquo;Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.&rdquo; At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne.	second-coming
0	Revelation 4:2	At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne.	comforter
0	Revelation 4:2-5:5	At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning, and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God, and before the throne there was as it were a sea of glass, like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind: ...	worrying
0	Revelation 4:8	And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say, &ldquo;Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come!&rdquo;	angels,holiness
0	Revelation 5:10	And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth.&rdquo;	kingdom,mediator
0	Revelation 5:11	Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,	angels
0	Revelation 5:11-12	Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, &ldquo;Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!&rdquo;	angels
0	Revelation 5:12	Saying with a loud voice, &ldquo;Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!&rdquo;	wisdom
0	Revelation 5:8	And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.	mediator
0	Revelation 5:9	And they sang a new song, saying, &ldquo;Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation,	blood,heaven,singing
0	Revelation 6:10	They cried out with a loud voice, &ldquo;O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?&rdquo;	persecution
0	Revelation 6:11	Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.	rest
0	Revelation 6:1-17	Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice like thunder, &ldquo;Come!&rdquo; And I looked, and behold, a white horse! And its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering, and to conquer. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, &ldquo;Come!&rdquo; And out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that people should slay one another, and he was given a great sword. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, &ldquo;Come!&rdquo; And I looked, and behold, a black horse! And its rider had a pair of scales in his hand. ...	second-coming
0	Revelation 6:16	Calling to the mountains and rocks, &ldquo;Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb,	rebirth
0	Revelation 6:17	For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand?&rdquo;	rebirth
0	Revelation 6:6	And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, &ldquo;A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine!&rdquo;	wine
0	Revelation 6:9-11	When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, &ldquo;O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?&rdquo; Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.	persecution
0	Revelation 7:1	After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree.	mediator
0	Revelation 7:1-17	After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun, with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea, saying, &ldquo;Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads.&rdquo; And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel: 12,000 from the tribe of Judah were sealed, 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of Gad, ...	mediator,nearness
0	Revelation 7:13-17	Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, &ldquo;Who are these, clothed in white robes, and from where have they come?&rdquo; I said to him, &ldquo;Sir, you know.&rdquo; And he said to me, &ldquo;These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. &ldquo;Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Revelation 7:14	I said to him, &ldquo;Sir, you know.&rdquo; And he said to me, &ldquo;These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.	blood,persecution,second-coming
0	Revelation 7:9	After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands,	heaven
0	Revelation 7:9-10	After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, &ldquo;Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!&rdquo;	world
0	Revelation 7:9-15	After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, &ldquo;Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!&rdquo; And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, &ldquo;Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen.&rdquo; Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, &ldquo;Who are these, clothed in white robes, and from where have they come?&rdquo; ...	mediator
0	Revelation 9:1-21	And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth. They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone. ...	idols
0	Revelation 9:16-10:9	The number of mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand; I heard their number. And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them: they wore breastplates the color of fire and of sapphire and of sulfur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths. By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of their mouths. For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound. The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk, ...	materialism
0	Revelation 9:20-21	The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk, nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.	idols
0	Revelation 9:21	Nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.	sin
0	Revelation 9:4	They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.	blameless,equipment
0	Revelation 9:6	And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them.	death
0	Romans 1:1	Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,	slavery
0	Romans 1:11-12	For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you&mdash; that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.	community,sickness
0	Romans 1:12	That is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.	friendship
0	Romans 1:1-32	Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, ...	acknowledging,calling,fruitfulness,gossip,gratitude,harvest,kingdom,nearness,neighbor,salvation
0	Romans 1:1-4:25	Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, ...	wine
0	Romans 1:14-15	I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish. So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.	evangelism
0	Romans 1:16	For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.	easter,evangelism,salvation,the-word
0	Romans 1:16-17	For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, &ldquo;The righteous shall live by faith.&rdquo;	faith
0	Romans 1:17	For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, &ldquo;The righteous shall live by faith.&rdquo;	faith,righteousness
0	Romans 1:18	For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth.	anger,awe,heaven,truth
0	Romans 1:18-20	For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.	creation
0	Romans 1:20	For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.	almighty,creation,god,mind,strength,understanding
0	Romans 1:20-22	For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools,	acknowledging,mind
0	Romans 1:21	For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened.	gratitude,heart
0	Romans 1:21-23	For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things.	idols
0	Romans 1:24	Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves,	rebirth
0	Romans 1:24-25	Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen.	truth
0	Romans 1:24-27	Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen. For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.	desires
0	Romans 1:26	For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature;	rebirth
0	Romans 1:26-27	For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.	acknowledging
0	Romans 1:27	And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.	rebirth,receiving
0	Romans 1:28	And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done.	acknowledging,mind,thoughts
0	Romans 1:28-31	And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless.	acknowledging
0	Romans 1:28-32	And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.	gossip,sin
0	Romans 1:29	They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips,	gossip,greed,neighbor
0	Romans 1:29-30	They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,	gossip
0	Romans 1:29-32	They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.	gossip
0	Romans 1:30	Slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,	gossip,slavery
0	Romans 1:4	And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,	easter,resurrection
0	Romans 1:4-5	And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations,	easter,resurrection
0	Romans 1:5	Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations,	obedience
0	Romans 1:5-6	Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ,	evangelism
0	Romans 1:7	To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.	grace
0	Romans 10:10	For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.	confession,faith,faithfulness,heart,righteousness,salvation
0	Romans 10:10-17	For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, &ldquo;Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.&rdquo; For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For &ldquo;everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.&rdquo; How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? ...	evangelism
0	Romans 10:1-11:36	Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. For, being ignorant of the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. ...	the-word
0	Romans 10:13	For &ldquo;everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.&rdquo;	life,pentecost,purification,rebirth,redeemer,salvation,widows
0	Romans 10:14	How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching?	evangelism
0	Romans 10:17	So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.	blood,evangelism,faith,faithfulness,learning,listening,reliability,sadness,speaking,truth,the-word
0	Romans 10:2	For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.	persecution
0	Romans 10:3	For, being ignorant of the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness.	righteousness
0	Romans 10:4	For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.	equipment,law,righteousness
0	Romans 10:9	Because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.	awe,blameless,easter,eternal-life,faith,jesus,lying,pentecost,promises,redeemer,resurrection,salvation,trust
0	Romans 10:9-10	Because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.	confession,heart,pentecost,promises,resurrection,salvation
0	Romans 10:9-11	Because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, &ldquo;Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.&rdquo;	confession
0	Romans 10:9-13	Because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, &ldquo;Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.&rdquo; For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For &ldquo;everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.&rdquo;	heaven
0	Romans 11:15	For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead?	reconciliation
0	Romans 11:18	Do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you.	humility
0	Romans 11:22	Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off.	goodness
0	Romans 11:22-13:14	Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off. And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree. Lest you be wise in your own sight, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers: a partial hardening has come upon Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, &ldquo;The Deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob&rdquo;; ...	addiction
0	Romans 11:26	And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, &ldquo;The Deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob&rdquo;;	prophecy
0	Romans 11:27	&ldquo;and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins.&rdquo;	covenant
0	Romans 11:29	For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.	calling
0	Romans 11:33	Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!	understanding,wisdom
0	Romans 11:34	&ldquo;For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor?&rdquo;	holy-spirit
0	Romans 11:36	For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen.	creation,praise,reconciliation,world
0	Romans 11:6	But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.	grace,reward
0	Romans 11:6-29	But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written, &ldquo;God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, down to this very day.&rdquo; And David says, &ldquo;Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them; let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever.&rdquo; ...	debt
0	Romans 12:1	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.	blameless,body,clothing,gentleness,health,holiness,mercy,neighbor,obedience,purification,sacrifice,self-control,serving,thoughts,transformation,worship
0	Romans 12:10	Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.	community,easter,friendship,humility,love,neighbor
0	Romans 12:10-11	Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.	friendship,serving
0	Romans 12:11	Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.	serving
0	Romans 12:1-13:14	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. ...	mind
0	Romans 12:1-14:23	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. ...	selfishness
0	Romans 12:12	Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer.	hope,joy,patience,prayer
0	Romans 12:1-2	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.	addiction,body,clothing,debt,healing,health,holiness,mercy,mind,overcoming,planning,reconciliation,relationships,sacrifice,self-control,soul,spirit,thoughts,transformation,trust,worship
0	Romans 12:1-21	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. ...	calling,community,sacrifice,serving,transformation
0	Romans 12:13	Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.	community,generosity,giving,selfishness,serving
0	Romans 12:13-17	Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.	community
0	Romans 12:14	Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them.	blessing,persecution,suffering
0	Romans 12:14-21	Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. ...	reconciliation
0	Romans 12:15	Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.	compassion,friendship,joy
0	Romans 12:16	Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight.	community,humility,pride
0	Romans 12:17	Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.	forgiveness,honesty,peace
0	Romans 12:17-19	Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, &ldquo;Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.&rdquo;	punishment
0	Romans 12:17-21	Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, &ldquo;Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.&rdquo; To the contrary, &ldquo;if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.&rdquo; Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.	honesty,lying,peace,persecution
0	Romans 12:18	If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.	neighbor,peace,reconciliation
0	Romans 12:19	Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, &ldquo;Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.&rdquo;	anger,evil,neighbor,protection,self-control,trust,weakness
0	Romans 12:2	Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.	body,clothing,contentment,conversion,faithfulness,gentleness,god,goodness,healing,health,heart,honesty,life,materialism,mind,neighbor,overcoming,planning,pride,seeking,self-control,thoughts,transformation,trust,valuable,weakness,wine,wisdom,the-word,world
0	Romans 12:20	To the contrary, &ldquo;if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.&rdquo;	compassion,forgiveness
0	Romans 12:20-21	To the contrary, &ldquo;if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.&rdquo; Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.	community
0	Romans 12:21	Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.	anger,comforter,evil,goodness,overcoming,temptation
0	Romans 12:3	For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned.	faith,humility,mind,pride,thoughts
0	Romans 12:3-13	For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith; if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching; ...	community
0	Romans 12:4	For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function,	calling
0	Romans 12:4-5	For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.	church,community
0	Romans 12:4-7	For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith; if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching;	serving
0	Romans 12:5	So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.	church,community
0	Romans 12:6-8	Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith; if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching; the one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.	body,generosity
0	Romans 12:8	The one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.	giving,mercy
0	Romans 12:9	Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.	evil,family,goodness,love
0	Romans 12:9-10	Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.	relationships
0	Romans 12:9-13	Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.	community,serving
0	Romans 12:9-21	Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. ...	community
0	Romans 13:1	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.	law,obedience,safety
0	Romans 13:10	Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.	law,love,neighbor
0	Romans 13:11	Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.	conversion,world
0	Romans 13:1-14	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience. ...	debt,law,mediator,punishment
0	Romans 13:12	The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.	light
0	Romans 13:13-14	Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires.	addiction,desires
0	Romans 13:14	But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires.	addiction,clothing,dependence,self-control,thoughts,transformation
0	Romans 13:1-4	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer.	punishment
0	Romans 13:1-5	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience.	mediator
0	Romans 13:1-7	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience. ...	law,mediator
0	Romans 13:2	Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment.	law
0	Romans 13:4	For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer.	evil,faithfulness,law,neighbor,protection,punishment
0	Romans 13:5	Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience.	law
0	Romans 13:6	For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing.	greed
0	Romans 13:7	Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.	debt,honesty,money
0	Romans 13:7-9	Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, &ldquo;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&rdquo; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	law
0	Romans 13:8	Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.	debt,equipment,law,love,money,neighbor
0	Romans 13:8-10	Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, &ldquo;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&rdquo; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo; Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.	freedom,law,neighbor
0	Romans 13:9	For the commandments, &ldquo;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&rdquo; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;	neighbor
0	Romans 13:9-10	For the commandments, &ldquo;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&rdquo; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo; Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.	neighbor
0	Romans 13:9-11	For the commandments, &ldquo;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&rdquo; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &ldquo;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&rdquo; Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.	law
0	Romans 14:1	As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions.	community,faith,neighbor
0	Romans 14:10	Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God;	judgment
0	Romans 14:10-12	Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God; for it is written, &ldquo;As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.&rdquo; So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.	judgment
0	Romans 14:11	For it is written, &ldquo;As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.&rdquo;	praise,worship
0	Romans 14:1-15:33	As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. ...	christmas
0	Romans 14:12	So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.	judgment,reward
0	Romans 14:12-13	So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.	judgment
0	Romans 14:1-23	As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. ...	food,freedom,harvest,safety,sin
0	Romans 14:13	Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.	judgment,temptation
0	Romans 14:13-23	Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. ...	addiction
0	Romans 14:15	For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died.	selfishness
0	Romans 14:16-18	So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.	kingdom
0	Romans 14:17	For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.	contentment,holy-spirit,joy,kingdom,peace,righteousness
0	Romans 14:17-18	For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.	kingdom
0	Romans 14:19	So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding.	peace
0	Romans 14:21	It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.	wine
0	Romans 14:22	The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves.	equipment
0	Romans 14:23	But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.	clothing,faith,sin
0	Romans 14:4	Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.	blessing
0	Romans 14:5	One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind.	mind,sabbath
0	Romans 14:8	For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's.	death
0	Romans 14:9	For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.	resurrection
0	Romans 15:1	We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves.	serving
0	Romans 15:1-2	We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up.	honesty
0	Romans 15:13	May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.	blessing,christmas,comforter,conversion,courage,encouragement,evangelism,faith,holy-spirit,hope,joy,life,peace,rest,savior,spirit,strength,thoughts,trust,weakness,worrying
0	Romans 15:1-3	We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, &ldquo;The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me.&rdquo;	selfishness
0	Romans 15:1-33	We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, &ldquo;The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me.&rdquo; For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, ...	materialism
0	Romans 15:14	I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge and able to instruct one another.	goodness
0	Romans 15:19	By the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God&mdash;so that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ;	miracles
0	Romans 15:2	Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up.	encouragement,neighbor
0	Romans 15:20	And thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel, not where Christ has already been named, lest I build on someone else's foundation,	evangelism
0	Romans 15:29	I know that when I come to you I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.	blessing
0	Romans 15:30	I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,	holy-spirit,spirit
0	Romans 15:32	So that by God's will I may come to you with joy and be refreshed in your company.	joy
0	Romans 15:33	May the God of peace be with you all. Amen.	peace
0	Romans 15:4	For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.	comforter,encouragement,hope,learning,patience,the-word
0	Romans 15:4-5	For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus,	encouragement,mind,patience
0	Romans 15:5	May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus,	community,encouragement,patience,relationships
0	Romans 15:5-6	May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.	gentleness
0	Romans 15:6	That together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.	comforter
0	Romans 15:7	Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.	community,gentleness
0	Romans 15:8	For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs,	promises
0	Romans 15:9	And in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, &ldquo;Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.&rdquo;	singing
0	Romans 16:17	I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them.	church,community,evil,holiness
0	Romans 16:17-18	I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.	lying,selfishness
0	Romans 16:20	The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.	devil,peace,suffering
0	Romans 2:1	Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things.	judgment
0	Romans 2:12	For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.	judgment,punishment
0	Romans 2:12-16	For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.	mediator
0	Romans 2:1-29	Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things. Do you suppose, O man&mdash;you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself&mdash;that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. ...	law
0	Romans 2:13	For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified.	law
0	Romans 2:16	On that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.	evangelism,judgment
0	Romans 2:21	You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal?	learning
0	Romans 2:21-24	You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law. For, as it is written, &ldquo;The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.&rdquo;	honesty
0	Romans 2:3	Do you suppose, O man&mdash;you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself&mdash;that you will escape the judgment of God?	punishment
0	Romans 2:4	Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance?	dependence,gentleness,goodness,patience,repentance
0	Romans 2:5	But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed.	anger,heart,repentance
0	Romans 2:5-12	But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, ...	judgment
0	Romans 2:5-16	But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, ...	second-coming
0	Romans 2:5-7	But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life;	soul
0	Romans 2:6	He will render to each one according to his works:	reward
0	Romans 2:6-16	He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. ...	evangelism
0	Romans 2:6-8	He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury.	evangelism,evil,materialism
0	Romans 2:7	To those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life;	eternal-life,patience
0	Romans 2:8	But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury.	selfishness
0	Romans 3:10	As it is written: &ldquo;None is righteous, no, not one;	promises,righteousness,salvation
0	Romans 3:10-11	As it is written: &ldquo;None is righteous, no, not one; no one understands; no one seeks for God.	seeking
0	Romans 3:11	No one understands; no one seeks for God.	seeking
0	Romans 3:13	&ldquo;Their throat is an open grave; they use their tongues to deceive.&rdquo; &ldquo;The venom of asps is under their lips.&rdquo;	speaking
0	Romans 3:1-31	Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as it is written, &ldquo;That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when you are judged.&rdquo; But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? (I speak in a human way.) ...	salvation
0	Romans 3:20	For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.	law,righteousness,salvation
0	Romans 3:20-24	For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&mdash; the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,	grace
0	Romans 3:21	But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&mdash;	law
0	Romans 3:21-23	But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&mdash; the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,	righteousness
0	Romans 3:22	The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction:	righteousness
0	Romans 3:23	For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,	awe,debt,eternal-life,evangelism,evil,forgiveness,goodness,learning,orphans,pentecost,purification,rebirth,reconciliation,redeemer,righteousness,salvation,sin
0	Romans 3:23-24	For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,	grace,sin
0	Romans 3:23-25	For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.	savior
0	Romans 3:24	And are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,	evangelism,grace
0	Romans 3:25	Whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.	blood,sacrifice
0	Romans 3:28	For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.	law,purification
0	Romans 3:31	Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law.	law
0	Romans 4:11	He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,	covenant,righteousness
0	Romans 4:11-12	He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.	clothing
0	Romans 4:1-25	What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? &ldquo;Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.&rdquo; Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due. And to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, ...	christmas,reward
0	Romans 4:13	For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith.	righteousness
0	Romans 4:1-4	What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? &ldquo;Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.&rdquo; Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due.	clothing
0	Romans 4:15	For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law there is no transgression.	law
0	Romans 4:16	That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring&mdash;not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all,	clothing,grace
0	Romans 4:18	In hope he believed against hope, that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, &ldquo;So shall your offspring be.&rdquo;	hope
0	Romans 4:19-20	He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead (since he was about a hundred years old), or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No distrust made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,	clothing
0	Romans 4:20-21	No distrust made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised.	faith,trust
0	Romans 4:23-5:2	But the words &ldquo;it was counted to him&rdquo; were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.	clothing
0	Romans 4:24	But for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,	righteousness
0	Romans 4:25	Who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.	easter,reconciliation,resurrection
0	Romans 4:3	For what does the Scripture say? &ldquo;Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.&rdquo;	purification,righteousness
0	Romans 4:4	Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due.	reward
0	Romans 4:5	And to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness,	fruitfulness,righteousness
0	Romans 4:9	Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness.	righteousness
0	Romans 5:1	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.	awe,faith,peace,purification,reconciliation,relationships,righteousness
0	Romans 5:10	For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.	friendship,life,reconciliation
0	Romans 5:10-11	For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.	reconciliation
0	Romans 5:11	More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.	easter,joy,reconciliation,sacrifice,savior
0	Romans 5:1-11	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. ...	courage
0	Romans 5:12	Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned&mdash;	death,eternal-life,punishment,purification,sin
0	Romans 5:1-2	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.	grace
0	Romans 5:1-21	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. ...	eternal-life,grace,sin,transformation
0	Romans 5:13-6:18	For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come. But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ. ...	addiction
0	Romans 5:15	But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many.	grace,punishment
0	Romans 5:1-5	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.	faith,righteousness
0	Romans 5:17	For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.	eternal-life,grace,heaven,righteousness
0	Romans 5:18	Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men.	sacrifice
0	Romans 5:19	For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.	obedience
0	Romans 5:2	Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.	hope
0	Romans 5:20	Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more,	grace,law
0	Romans 5:21	So that, as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.	eternal-life
0	Romans 5:2-4	Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope,	patience
0	Romans 5:2-5	Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.	hope
0	Romans 5:3	More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance,	patience,persecution,purification,suffering
0	Romans 5:3-4	More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope,	healing,hope,patience,sickness,suffering
0	Romans 5:3-5	More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.	addiction,dependence,holy-spirit,suffering
0	Romans 5:4	And endurance produces character, and character produces hope,	patience
0	Romans 5:5	And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.	comforter,god,holy-spirit,hope,love,pentecost,spirit,strength
0	Romans 5:6	For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.	sacrifice,strength,transformation
0	Romans 5:6-11	For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person&mdash;though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die&mdash; but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. ...	reconciliation
0	Romans 5:7-10	For one will scarcely die for a righteous person&mdash;though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die&mdash; but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.	savior
0	Romans 5:8	But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.	debt,easter,eternal-life,evangelism,god,grace,jesus,love,neighbor,reconciliation,sacrifice,salvation,savior,thoughts,valuable
0	Romans 5:8-9	But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God.	blood,reconciliation
0	Romans 5:9	Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God.	blood,purification
0	Romans 6:11	So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.	baptism
0	Romans 6:12	Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions.	self-control
0	Romans 6:1-2	What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it?	clothing,salvation
0	Romans 6:12-14	Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.	temptation
0	Romans 6:1-23	What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. ...	awe,baptism
0	Romans 6:13	Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness.	body,sacrifice
0	Romans 6:14	For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.	confession,covenant,faithfulness,freedom,grace,law,mercy,salvation,world
0	Romans 6:1-4	What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.	grace
0	Romans 6:14-16	For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness?	addiction
0	Romans 6:14-8:13	For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. ...	sin,temptation
0	Romans 6:15	What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means!	freedom,law
0	Romans 6:16	Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness?	death,dependence,grace,obedience,selfishness
0	Romans 6:1-6	What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. ...	baptism
0	Romans 6:17	But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,	heart,obedience
0	Romans 6:18	And, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.	freedom
0	Romans 6:19	I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification.	holiness
0	Romans 6:2	By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it?	sacrifice
0	Romans 6:22	But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.	eternal-life,freedom,fruitfulness,holiness,slavery
0	Romans 6:23	For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.	awe,blood,covenant,death,debt,devil,eternal-life,evangelism,evil,father,forgiveness,generosity,god,heaven,hell,jesus,judgment,learning,life,mediator,mind,nearness,pentecost,promises,punishment,purification,rebirth,reconciliation,repentance,reward,righteousness,salvation,savior,second-coming,sin,soul,temptation
0	Romans 6:3	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?	baptism
0	Romans 6:3-4	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.	baptism,church
0	Romans 6:3-5	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.	baptism
0	Romans 6:3-6	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.	baptism
0	Romans 6:3-7	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin.	blood
0	Romans 6:4	We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.	baptism,confession,easter,eternal-life,faithfulness,grace,promises,rebirth,resurrection,sacrifice
0	Romans 6:5	For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.	easter,resurrection
0	Romans 6:5-6	For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.	resurrection,slavery
0	Romans 6:6	We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.	overcoming,purification
0	Romans 6:6-7	We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin.	addiction
0	Romans 6:6-8	We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.	clothing
0	Romans 6:7	For one who has died has been set free from sin.	freedom
0	Romans 6:8	Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.	eternal-life
0	Romans 6:8-11	Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.	easter,resurrection
0	Romans 6:9	We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him.	easter,resurrection
0	Romans 7:12	So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.	holiness,law,obedience
0	Romans 7:1-25	Or do you not know, brothers&mdash;for I am speaking to those who know the law&mdash;that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. ...	repentance
0	Romans 7:13	Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure.	evil
0	Romans 7:1-3	Or do you not know, brothers&mdash;for I am speaking to those who know the law&mdash;that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.	marriage
0	Romans 7:14	For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin.	law
0	Romans 7:14-25	For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. ...	addiction
0	Romans 7:15-24	For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. ...	spirit
0	Romans 7:1-6	Or do you not know, brothers&mdash;for I am speaking to those who know the law&mdash;that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. ...	law
0	Romans 7:19-21	For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand.	temptation
0	Romans 7:2	For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage.	marriage
0	Romans 7:22	For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being,	spirit
0	Romans 7:23	But I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.	mind,thoughts
0	Romans 7:25	Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.	thoughts
0	Romans 7:3	Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.	widows
0	Romans 7:4	Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God.	fruitfulness,law
0	Romans 7:5	For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death.	temptation
0	Romans 7:5-19	For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, &ldquo;You shall not covet.&rdquo; But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. ...	temptation
0	Romans 7:5-7	For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, &ldquo;You shall not covet.&rdquo;	law
0	Romans 7:6	But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code.	covenant,freedom,law,serving
0	Romans 7:7	What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, &ldquo;You shall not covet.&rdquo;	law
0	Romans 8:1	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.	awe,blood,compassion,forgiveness,freedom,law,punishment,purification,sadness,thoughts,weakness
0	Romans 8:11	If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.	easter,holy-spirit,resurrection,sickness,spirit
0	Romans 8:1-2	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.	freedom,punishment
0	Romans 8:13	For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.	death,self-control
0	Romans 8:1-39	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. ...	addiction,devil,fear,jesus,selfishness,weakness,worrying
0	Romans 8:14	For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.	children,comforter,holy-spirit,selfishness,spirit
0	Romans 8:1-4	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.	freedom
0	Romans 8:15	For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, &ldquo;Abba! Father!&rdquo;	children,courage,family,fear,freedom,holy-spirit,overcoming,slavery,spirit
0	Romans 8:15-16	For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, &ldquo;Abba! Father!&rdquo; The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,	grace,holy-spirit
0	Romans 8:16	The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,	children,comforter,holy-spirit,mediator,spirit
0	Romans 8:17	And if children, then heirs&mdash;heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him.	persecution,suffering,weakness
0	Romans 8:17-18	And if children, then heirs&mdash;heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.	suffering
0	Romans 8:18	For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.	conversion,death,hope,sickness,suffering
0	Romans 8:19	For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God.	children,creation
0	Romans 8:2	For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.	freedom
0	Romans 8:20-21	For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God.	freedom
0	Romans 8:20-22	For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now.	world
0	Romans 8:21	That the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God.	freedom
0	Romans 8:22-23	For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies.	creation
0	Romans 8:24	For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees?	hope
0	Romans 8:24-25	For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.	faith,hope,patience
0	Romans 8:25	But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.	hope,patience
0	Romans 8:26	Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words.	holy-spirit,pentecost,prayer,purification,spirit,weakness
0	Romans 8:26-27	Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.	comforter,holy-spirit,prayer,spirit
0	Romans 8:27	And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.	heart,holy-spirit
0	Romans 8:28	And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.	calling,contentment,death,dependence,encouragement,evil,faith,god,goodness,gratitude,health,hope,kingdom,learning,life,love,mercy,obedience,overcoming,planning,prayer,protection,relationships,reward,seeking,sickness,strength,suffering,thoughts,trust,worrying
0	Romans 8:28-29	And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers.	suffering
0	Romans 8:29	For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers.	holiness
0	Romans 8:3	For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh,	devil,law,sacrifice,suffering
0	Romans 8:31	What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?	encouragement,fear,life,planning,protection,safety
0	Romans 8:31-39	What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&mdash;more than that, who was raised&mdash;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? ...	courage
0	Romans 8:32	He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?	promises,sacrifice
0	Romans 8:33-39	Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&mdash;more than that, who was raised&mdash;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written, &ldquo;For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.&rdquo; No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. ...	world
0	Romans 8:34	Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&mdash;more than that, who was raised&mdash;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.	easter,nearness,resurrection,sadness
0	Romans 8:35	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?	love,persecution,suffering
0	Romans 8:35-37	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written, &ldquo;For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.&rdquo; No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.	persecution
0	Romans 8:35-39	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written, &ldquo;For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.&rdquo; No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.	persecution
0	Romans 8:37	No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.	overcoming
0	Romans 8:37-39	No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.	equipment,god,love,salvation
0	Romans 8:38-39	For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.	death,devil,encouragement,fear,god,life,promises,resurrection,sadness,salvation,savior
0	Romans 8:4	In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.	weakness
0	Romans 8:4-6	In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.	righteousness
0	Romans 8:5	For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit.	clothing
0	Romans 8:5-6	For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.	mind,self-control,thoughts
0	Romans 8:6	For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.	beauty,death,encouragement,fruitfulness,life,mind,peace,spirit,thoughts,weakness
0	Romans 8:6-39	For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. ...	mind
0	Romans 8:7	For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot.	conversion,covenant,law,mind,persecution,purification,weakness
0	Romans 8:9	You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.	comforter,holy-spirit,rebirth,spirit
0	Romans 9:15	For he says to Moses, &ldquo;I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.&rdquo;	compassion,mercy
0	Romans 9:15-16	For he says to Moses, &ldquo;I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.&rdquo; So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy.	mercy
0	Romans 9:22-24	What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory&mdash; even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles?	mercy
0	Romans 9:28	For the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay.&rdquo;	rebirth
0	Romans 9:33	As it is written, &ldquo;Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.&rdquo;	prophecy,redeemer
0	Romans 9:7-13	And not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but &ldquo;Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.&rdquo; This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring. For this is what the promise said: &ldquo;About this time next year I will return, and Sarah shall have a son.&rdquo; And not only so, but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad&mdash;in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works but because of him who calls&mdash; ...	covenant
0	Ruth 1:1-22	In the days when the judges ruled there was a famine in the land, and a man of Bethlehem in Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech and the name of his wife Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Mahlon and Chilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons. These took Moabite wives; the name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there about ten years, and both Mahlon and Chilion died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband. ...	widows
0	Ruth 1:16	But Ruth said, &ldquo;Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God.	friendship,reliability
0	Ruth 1:16-17	But Ruth said, &ldquo;Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. May the Lord do so to me and more also if anything but death parts me from you.&rdquo;	friendship,marriage
0	Ruth 1:17	Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. May the Lord do so to me and more also if anything but death parts me from you.&rdquo;	friendship
0	Ruth 1:22	So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest.	harvest
0	Ruth 1:6	Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that the Lord had visited his people and given them food.	bread
0	Ruth 1:8	But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, &ldquo;Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me.	gratitude
0	Ruth 2:12	The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge!&rdquo;	gratitude
0	Ruth 2:1-23	Now Naomi had a relative of her husband's, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz. And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, &ldquo;Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor.&rdquo; And she said to her, &ldquo;Go, my daughter.&rdquo; So she set out and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the clan of Elimelech. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem. And he said to the reapers, &ldquo;The Lord be with you!&rdquo; And they answered, &ldquo;The Lord bless you.&rdquo; Then Boaz said to his young man who was in charge of the reapers, &ldquo;Whose young woman is this?&rdquo; ...	widows
0	Ruth 2:14	And at mealtime Boaz said to her, &ldquo;Come here and eat some bread and dip your morsel in the wine.&rdquo; So she sat beside the reapers, and he passed to her roasted grain. And she ate until she was satisfied, and she had some left over.	bread
0	Ruth 2:23	So she kept close to the young women of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat harvests. And she lived with her mother-in-law.	harvest
0	Ruth 3:1-18	Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, &ldquo;My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? Is not Boaz our relative, with whose young women you were? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Wash therefore and anoint yourself, and put on your cloak and go down to the threshing floor, but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down, and he will tell you what to do.&rdquo; And she replied, &ldquo;All that you say I will do.&rdquo; ...	widows
0	Song of Solomon 1:1-17	The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine; your anointing oils are fragrant; your name is oil poured out; therefore virgins love you. Draw me after you; let us run. The king has brought me into his chambers. We will exult and rejoice in you; we will extol your love more than wine; rightly do they love you. I am very dark, but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon. ...	body
0	Song of Solomon 1:15	Behold, you are beautiful, my love; behold, you are beautiful; your eyes are doves.	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 1:2	Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine;	love,wine
0	Song of Solomon 1:5	I am very dark, but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 1:7	Tell me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture your flock, where you make it lie down at noon; for why should I be like one who veils herself beside the flocks of your companions?	rest
0	Song of Solomon 2:15	Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes that spoil the vineyards, for our vineyards are in blossom.&rdquo;	equipment
0	Song of Solomon 2:16	My beloved is mine, and I am his; he grazes among the lilies.	love
0	Song of Solomon 2:2	As a lily among brambles, so is my love among the young women.	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 4:10	How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, and the fragrance of your oils than any spice!	love
0	Song of Solomon 4:1-16	Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are doves behind your veil. Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead. Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and not one among them has lost its young. Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil. Your neck is like the tower of David, built in rows of stone; on it hang a thousand shields, all of them shields of warriors. Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, that graze among the lilies. ...	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 4:7	You are altogether beautiful, my love; there is no flaw in you.	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 4:9	You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.	marriage,relationships
0	Song of Solomon 7:1-13	How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O noble daughter! Your rounded thighs are like jewels, the work of a master hand. Your navel is a rounded bowl that never lacks mixed wine. Your belly is a heap of wheat, encircled with lilies. Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle. Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rabbim. Your nose is like a tower of Lebanon, which looks toward Damascus. Your head crowns you like Carmel, and your flowing locks are like purple; a king is held captive in the tresses. ...	beauty
0	Song of Solomon 8:6	Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the Lord.	love
0	Song of Solomon 8:6-7	Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the Lord. Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, he would be utterly despised.	love
0	Song of Solomon 8:7	Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, he would be utterly despised.	love
0	Titus 1:1	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness,	blameless
0	Titus 1:11	They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach.	speaking
0	Titus 1:1-2	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began	hope,truth
0	Titus 1:1-3:15	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior; To Titus, my true child in a common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior. This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you&mdash; ...	addiction
0	Titus 1:15	To the pure, all things are pure, but to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their minds and their consciences are defiled.	beauty,mind
0	Titus 1:2	In hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began	acknowledging,blameless,eternal-life,fruitfulness,hope,lying,world
0	Titus 1:5	This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you&mdash;	church
0	Titus 1:5-9	This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you&mdash; if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.	church
0	Titus 1:7	For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain,	anger,greed,honesty
0	Titus 1:8	But hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined.	self-control,spirit
0	Titus 2:1	But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine.	learning
0	Titus 2:11	For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people,	grace,salvation
0	Titus 2:11-12	For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,	addiction,grace,self-control
0	Titus 2:11-14	For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.	clothing,dependence,grace,self-control
0	Titus 2:1-12	But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine. Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good, and so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled. ...	self-control
0	Titus 2:12	Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,	grace,self-control
0	Titus 2:13	Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ,	comforter,grace,hope,jesus,rebirth,redeemer,second-coming
0	Titus 2:13-14	Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.	savior
0	Titus 2:14	Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.	goodness,purification,sacrifice
0	Titus 2:2	Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness.	patience,self-control
0	Titus 2:2-3	Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good,	gossip
0	Titus 2:3	Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good,	gossip,wine
0	Titus 2:4	And so train the young women to love their husbands and children,	compassion
0	Titus 2:6	Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled.	self-control
0	Titus 2:7-8	Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity, and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.	honesty
0	Titus 2:9	Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative,	slavery
0	Titus 2:9-10	Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior.	slavery
0	Titus 2:9-12	Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,	work
0	Titus 3:1	Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work,	gentleness,law,obedience,work
0	Titus 3:1-15	Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, ...	christmas,goodness
0	Titus 3:1-2	Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people.	gentleness,gossip
0	Titus 3:14	And let our people learn to devote themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and not be unfruitful.	learning
0	Titus 3:2	To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people.	fruitfulness,gentleness,gossip,humility,speaking
0	Titus 3:3-5	For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,	soul
0	Titus 3:4	But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared,	goodness
0	Titus 3:5	He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,	baptism,blameless,confession,conversion,faithfulness,holy-spirit,mercy,promises,purification,rebirth,salvation,spirit,transformation,trust
0	Titus 3:5-6	He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,	fruitfulness
0	Titus 3:5-7	He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.	grace,righteousness
0	Titus 3:7	So that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.	eternal-life,grace,hope
0	Titus 3:8	The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people.	law
0	Zechariah 1:3	Therefore say to them, Thus declares the Lord of hosts: Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts.	repentance
0	Zechariah 1:6	But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they repented and said, As the Lord of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us.&rdquo;	judgment
0	Zechariah 10:1	Ask rain from the Lord in the season of the spring rain, from the Lord who makes the storm clouds, and he will give them showers of rain, to everyone the vegetation in the field.	blessing
0	Zechariah 10:1-12	Ask rain from the Lord in the season of the spring rain, from the Lord who makes the storm clouds, and he will give them showers of rain, to everyone the vegetation in the field. For the household gods utter nonsense, and the diviners see lies; they tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Therefore the people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd. &ldquo;My anger is hot against the shepherds, and I will punish the leaders; for the Lord of hosts cares for his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic steed in battle. From him shall come the cornerstone, from him the tent peg, from him the battle bow, from him every ruler&mdash;all of them together. They shall be like mighty men in battle, trampling the foe in the mud of the streets; they shall fight because the Lord is with them, and they shall put to shame the riders on horses. ...	poverty
0	Zechariah 10:12	I will make them strong in the Lord, and they shall walk in his name,&rdquo; declares the Lord.	blessing
0	Zechariah 10:6	&ldquo;I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph. I will bring them back because I have compassion on them, and they shall be as though I had not rejected them, for I am the Lord their God and I will answer them.	listening
0	Zechariah 11:12-13	Then I said to them, &ldquo;If it seems good to you, give me my wages; but if not, keep them.&rdquo; And they weighed out as my wages thirty pieces of silver. Then the Lord said to me, &ldquo;Throw it to the potter&rdquo;&mdash;the lordly price at which I was priced by them. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the Lord, to the potter.	messiah
0	Zechariah 11:17	&ldquo;Woe to my worthless shepherd, who deserts the flock! May the sword strike his arm and his right eye! Let his arm be wholly withered, his right eye utterly blinded!&rdquo;	confession,equipment,receiving
0	Zechariah 12:1	The burden of the word of the Lord concerning Israel: Thus declares the Lord, who stretched out the heavens and founded the earth and formed the spirit of man within him:	creation
0	Zechariah 12:10	&ldquo;And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that, when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one weeps over a firstborn.	messiah,prophecy,rebirth,reliability
0	Zechariah 12:8	On that day the Lord will protect the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them on that day shall be like David, and the house of David shall be like God, like the angel of the Lord, going before them.	blessing
0	Zechariah 13:1	&ldquo;On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness.	christmas
0	Zechariah 13:9	And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them. I will say, &lsquo;They are my people&rsquo;; and they will say, &lsquo;The Lord is my God.&rsquo;&rdquo;	prayer,temptation
0	Zechariah 14:1-21	Behold, a day is coming for the Lord, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken and the houses plundered and the women raped. Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount shall move northward, and the other half southward. And you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him. ...	equipment,receiving
0	Zechariah 14:20	And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, &ldquo;Holy to the Lord.&rdquo; And the pots in the house of the Lord shall be as the bowls before the altar.	holiness
0	Zechariah 14:4	On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount shall move northward, and the other half southward.	almighty,ascension
0	Zechariah 14:6-9	On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost. And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but at evening time there shall be light. On that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter. And the Lord will be king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one and his name one.	christmas
0	Zechariah 14:9	And the Lord will be king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one and his name one.	ascension,kingdom
0	Zechariah 2:10	Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I come and I will dwell in your midst, declares the Lord.	singing
0	Zechariah 3:5-4:6	And I said, &ldquo;Let them put a clean turban on his head.&rdquo; So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. ...	addiction
0	Zechariah 4:1-14	And the angel who talked with me came again and woke me, like a man who is awakened out of his sleep. And he said to me, &ldquo;What do you see?&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it. And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left.&rdquo; And I said to the angel who talked with me, &ldquo;What are these, my lord?&rdquo; Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, &ldquo;Do you not know what these are?&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;No, my lord.&rdquo; ...	dependence
0	Zechariah 4:6	Then he said to me, &ldquo;This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel: Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the Lord of hosts.	dependence,spirit,strength
0	Zechariah 5:9	Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, two women coming forward! The wind was in their wings. They had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven.	angels
0	Zechariah 7:10	Do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart.&rdquo;	compassion,orphans,widows
0	Zechariah 7:1-14	In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chislev. Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech and their men to entreat the favor of the Lord, saying to the priests of the house of the Lord of hosts and the prophets, &ldquo;Should I weep and abstain in the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?&rdquo; Then the word of the Lord of hosts came to me: &ldquo;Say to all the people of the land and the priests, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh, for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted? ...	selfishness
0	Zechariah 7:5	&ldquo;Say to all the people of the land and the priests, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh, for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted?	fasting
0	Zechariah 7:6	And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves?	selfishness
0	Zechariah 7:8-10	And the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying, &ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another, do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart.&rdquo;	compassion
0	Zechariah 7:9	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another,	compassion
0	Zechariah 7:9-10	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another, do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart.&rdquo;	community,compassion,evil,orphans
0	Zechariah 8:16	These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace;	lying,speaking,truth
0	Zechariah 8:16-17	These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace; do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath, for all these things I hate, declares the Lord.&rdquo;	honesty
0	Zechariah 8:19	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts: The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth and the fast of the seventh and the fast of the tenth shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts. Therefore love truth and peace.	fasting
0	Zechariah 8:20-23	&ldquo;Thus says the Lord of hosts: Peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities. The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, &lsquo;Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the Lord and to seek the Lord of hosts; I myself am going.&rsquo; Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts: In those days ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew, saying, &lsquo;Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.&rsquo;&rdquo;	seeking
0	Zechariah 9:1-17	The burden of the word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrach and Damascus is its resting place. For the Lord has an eye on mankind and on all the tribes of Israel, and on Hamath also, which borders on it, Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise. Tyre has built herself a rampart and heaped up silver like dust, and fine gold like the mud of the streets. But behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions and strike down her power on the sea, and she shall be devoured by fire. Ashkelon shall see it, and be afraid; Gaza too, and shall writhe in anguish; Ekron also, because its hopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza; Ashkelon shall be uninhabited; ...	overcoming
0	Zechariah 9:12	Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope; today I declare that I will restore to you double.	hope,safety
0	Zechariah 9:17	For how great is his goodness, and how great his beauty! Grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the young women.	beauty,wine
0	Zechariah 9:9	Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king is coming to you; righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.	awe,christmas,easter,gentleness,humility,jesus,messiah,overcoming,prophecy
0	Zephaniah 1:18	Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them on the day of the wrath of the Lord. In the fire of his jealousy, all the earth shall be consumed; for a full and sudden end he will make of all the inhabitants of the earth.	materialism
0	Zephaniah 2:3	Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land, who do his just commands; seek righteousness; seek humility; perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the Lord.	humility,seeking
0	Zephaniah 3:11	&ldquo;On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me; for then I will remove from your midst your proudly exultant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain.	pride
0	Zephaniah 3:13	Those who are left in Israel; they shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.&rdquo;	lying,speaking
0	Zephaniah 3:17	The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.	encouragement,fear,god,hope,joy,love,rest,singing,strength
